we're
alive that's
silly that's so silly all right
um it looks like this
Ram I'm a little bit
concerned yeah I'm a little bit
concerned with h how this is let's see
if it did anything or if I totally broke
it oh
I
see it didn't tune for some reason I ran
200 of the same
experiment that's kind of a nice
estimate though of the uh
consistency
right
e e
so we got to figure out why the heck
this happened
probably this
oops hold
on
e
e e
quick call about the hardware that we're
getting so much stuff to figure out you
know there's so much stuff to figure
out all right what was going on here
ARs and then we
pass that's so
weird oh hang on
ah yep that's it my
bad my bad
there we
go d double check yeah these are
good well that's unfortunate um because
I have to rerun all
that to see if it works I don't have a
spare box but we'll uh we'll commit that
fix real quick
that kind of messes up plans let me see
if Spencer's around so I can see if we
uh do his thing today
all right
around to
code live and
fre
VI Spencer's got a really nice
environment PR that we're going to
review at some point today
there are a few things that we can look
at in the meantime here um oh perfect
Spencer's
ready
great and hop in voice will
keep so we can uh review this thing live
that would be good
cool and this will be a nice way to show
off Spencer's new environment as
well here we
are uh let's see desktop okay audio
should be good let me know if it isn't
Spencer
welcome okay just want me to pop up the
stream and then let me just turn off
your volume
yeah I think you can leave the stream
muted you just use it for the uh the
share screen audio sweet because I think
this will be good I like doing the pr
reviews live it sometimes people get it
encourages people to like PR their own
stuff and like mm's because uh for folks
online I do code review all environments
submitted to puffer lib
so he does read every line yes I do
actually read every line and and then I
read every line of every
revision I will forgive the fact that
they're 2500 lines because this is a
substantial
project it's a lot of lines to
read yeah I mean only a just over half
of that is actual the end code the other
stuff is oh you went Ham on
rendering yeah I mean rendering
rendering I found like a decent way of
making it better I mean the actual en is
only 1500 1400
that's not terrible
then Okay so we've
got parameters these look like they've
been
swept this is
good these you just threw into a
sweep yeah
yeah these seem reasonable to me
I found these I didn't res sweep after I
changed my stride but I just used the
same parameters from the previous sweep
and it it got pretty good results you
should see uh I'll show you real quick
the the neoc carb stuff so this one I
screwed up I accidentally ran the same
thing a bunch oh actually while I do
this code
review perfect also I think I got pong
continuous good to go I just have one
question on it awesome let's just yeah
if you're free we'll just integrate
everything today and uh we can get you
running experiments and stuff and then
after all this I got to go out at some
point to do the hardware fixes so I can
run pretty much we're going to be
wanting to run stuff 247 on the new uh
the hyper pram sweep algorithms I have
three new algorithms for you and
everyone to try
nice so yeah we'll see how this goes but
uh in the
meantime 1.5 billion steps do you have a
WB curve for me or Neptune curve or
something probably one yeah yeah let me
link it give me a sec uhhuh we'll start
putting our default stuff on Neptune
unless you absolutely hate it when uh
when I actually merge it in I think
you'll find way better I'll just I'll
play with it
right I think you'll find it way
easier I think I think this is the
one we will support both still the only
thing we're dropping support for is wand
B sweeps you will be able to sweep with
WP but not with their sweep's
API all right I just dropped the run in
the the the dev chat perfect so we get
to look at the
performance okay so I mean you're
getting to
80% in way way fewer you're getting to
80% this is probably in a few
minutes right yeah I mean the total run
was like an hour and a half or so yeah
yeah yeah so I this is fine and then
Rose cleared it only goes up to five
rows uh so that's just averaged because
I randomize the the height of the levels
from five to eight from okay so it goes
up to eight cool yeah so when you do I
found this out with the maze stuff but
when you do uh domain randomization
averages like this are super misleading
and actually GPU Drive guys have this
exact same problem because like from
here to here can be a huge difference
right because it means it could mean
that you're solving the max thing you're
solving is five or Max thing you're
solving is eight or whatever it's a
longtail distribution mhm it's the same
thing with like win percentage right
99.99 to 999 makes a huge difference
sure yeah so the good news is even if
you leave it this way I actually
explicitly account for that in the uh
the new hyper pram stuff so that's oh
really
yeah
[Music]
M yeah though it's a little tricky I
think if you're if you have a different
maximum score for each level that might
be a bit hard so you might have to
normalize that but uh yeah there is
something to explicitly account for that
is pretty cool yeah I me yeah I mean
levels completed is really I think
probably the most important thing I mean
it' be nice if levels completed was
logging based off of the type of level
it was facing so this W this is like a
win rate percentage right that's yeah
that's a solve rate win rate I literally
I account for this type this exact type
of curve explicitly in the new hyp Prem
stuff oh cool so I anticipate your
problems and solve them before you know
they
exist sounds like a smart
guy uh sounds like this is about all I
do um okay episode return yep it's fine
entropy
k f Frank
value yeah these are all fine I don't
see anything too bad where's perf on
this uh 900
900 train yeah train solid very solid
and what's the
network uh network is 3D com two layers
256 hidden 16
channels solid how many prms 500
something thousand 560 something like
that solid per for that good job well
done yeah you've you've actually learned
how to do stuff very well now this is
good and I see you've got the twofold
redundancy
you've got a reasonable batch size
that's reasonable for this type of M The
Horizon's pretty low yeah fine really
the the max or at least for that run I
mean the steps needed to solve that was
only 10 to 15 exactly so that's exactly
the math that I just did in my head
looking at this so yeah you're good high
as hell entropy
holy yeah that's that was that thing I
showed you in that other thing it's just
uh that's what sweep came out to be and
honestly The Sweep show they could even
get potentially better results if I
pushed it further the entire chart was
leaning to the right so when you see
something like this this is definitely
worth investigating because that's
really funny yeah I mean I'll change the
on the max like 0.15 or point you know
0.2 and see what happens right it's
probably just that you have a pretty
shallow M with like a not huge branching
Factor so like you actually want to keep
some substantial amount of random
exploration always in order to keep
solving that's kind of cool though
okay I like this this is good to know
and then we got Lambda okay you've got
like textbook parameters right here so
this is actually this is really in line
with what i' suggest this is on YouTube
right yes this is on YouTube as
well uh learning rate O2
Yep sprad this is fine oh I also found
that for pong um it seems like higher
Max grad can help as well huh yeah I
found some funny prams with pong I we'll
do that more in the future but it means
that as good as your thing is now maybe
we get it even better sure I mean
weirdly enough whenever I went from so
when I was back at doing stride two
right yeah um on this level set it was
not mind you it is random every time but
I mean 10,000 random is only so Random
it's gonna be the same thing uh it got
up to like higher 90s so this one kind
of capped out in the high 80s mm um high
high mid 80s when we went down to strike
or went up to stride three so it would
be interesting to see if there's other
hyper parameters that could you know
swing it back up it did worse on stride
three or stride two
three what's the
window there is a possibility that my
level gen back when I ran that was a
little bit wonky too so it's also
possible you did something silly with
the strid without realizing
it oh yeah I that's also possible what's
the window
size uh the like
OBS I see
on these are both stri one
so oh
oh then what is my three what not
expected that's Colonel
size uh
no okay no I had stride one I I meant my
kernel size I I I changed you kept
stride at one everywhere I I had stride
I had kernel of two originally I I had 2
by two by two kernel uhhuh and then I
changed it to three and then that is was
the difference the stride was one I kept
on both sides and three does better
right three on three kernel did worse
than two kernel wait two kernel did
better than three kernel yes
[Music]
H
weird oh or wait oh hold up well you
have it's three right now so I don't
know why you left the worst one
in well when we talked about it um
you're saying that when you have two
things get kind of wonky in the well
yeah because you can't Center it on the
agent so I tried moving it to three and
then three um
we might want to play with this but we
can just include this in the
sweep then CNN flat
size five times
channels yeah that's looking kind of
small that's probably why it did worse
man on the five channel one time 1 times
five yeah I start out on 5x 5 by9 and
then it goes to 3337 and then
115 yeah but if you change the colel
size it's going to be different
right this was probably different with
two kernel size yeah yeah it was it was
337 okay so you can see here right that
all this information is getting Swit
into 16 *
5 80 mhm that's kind of
small that was how I got the perform
performance boost back up to 900 but cuz
then it was it was at like 670 SPS um
well but the issue is not the
performance is not coming from this
being uh like 80 instead of 128 or 256
the perf differ is that the conss can
take longer MH so all I'm saying is that
we might have to fiddle with this
because you've made this bottleneck too
small oh okay like you're forcing the
whole information of the environment to
pass through 80
80 channels
right so I mean this is like you you
essentially you've got I don't know you
can think of the resolution of the
neuronet as what you want but you've got
320 bytes total to
convey greater than greater than that of
OBS right right yeah so that's or that
games yeah so that's the issue probably
so that's one thing to learn from
Network design is you always got to be
careful with your bottlenecks uh there
are network architectures where you
explicit want a bottleneck familiar with
auto
encoders yeah yeah so but that's not
what we're doing here we're not trying
to like reconstruct the original there's
no loss on this right for that this is
just like this is kind of just not
ideal so if if I were to just like
assume that M code is at this at good
speed right if you just blanket
statement it and then I then change the
network back to something where it's
like a two kernel where this would going
to end up being
um like a much
larger flat size
yeah am I just kind of stuck with that
SPS because it's just entirely Network
bound well what you should do is we
should sweep it and then its cost is
experiment seconds right and then score
is on the Y AIS so whatever trains
faster in wall clock time is
better
right I don't think okay I don't think
I've ever sweeped a network architecture
before we haven't done that yet we're
going to be able to cuz we have awesome
hyper parameter stuff uhhuh right we're
going to be able to start sweeping more
okay then yeah let's do that then after
you get your stuff in so we can start
yeah that's going to be really nice uh
it's it takes so much experimentation
for this I mean to give you an idea I
had to gut that whole algorithm redo all
the math like five times go through like
10 different data transforms try bunch
of different things design a synthetic
Benchmark come up with good baselines
like there's a lot of stuff that goes
into the uh the new algorithm so still
take some
testing sure and I mean at least we'll
be able to test a bunch on least on like
pong and the other environments before
we do like I guess environment like this
I mean we could run we could run it on
this today if you wanted to just to see
sure sure it's 400 lines of
code okay yeah even
one
file uh
what maybe this is
okay be careful I think I told you this
as well be careful with
16 so on uh so 16 are you saying be
careful on 16 on just flat layers are
you saying be careful 16 as a concept in
general
both so
what do you know about high dimensional
spaces I mean not much more beyond the
conceptual of what it is and how it's
generally used but I'm pretty sure I
might misquote this but let me
think I'm pretty sure if you randomly
sample yeah if you randomly sample in uh
in like high Dimensions every single
point is is going to be like on the
surface of the unit sphere
okay there's fun stuff um and I think
the way I always look at that is if you
flip a coin for every Dimension or well
you're taking a random variable for
every Dimension eventually one of them's
going to end up near the
extremities it's more complicated than
that but that's the basic interpretation
but anyways uh I'm confusing you so here
let me let me give you the really nice
quick cuz this is going to be actually
this is one of the more useful research
things I can tell you it'll save you a
lot of pain and suffering
all right um so people love to draw o
can I draw on 3D I think
so we'll see whether this drawing was a
good idea
I'm quite the artist as you can
see yeah you know Picasso would be
jealous of this uh level of
artwork [__]
it perfect
yeah I can just steal somebody else's
photo instead of trying to draw
one I wonder if this whole article is
[__] okay so here's somebody's
random thing right sure okay so this is
what uh a lost landscape looks like in
uh three uh two Dimensions technically
it's x y and then the height is the loss
okay oh okay sure sure so you have high
loss you have low loss and you have
different Minima right yeah yep and then
uh you can get stuck in a local Minima
right like one of these could be
shallower and then you're
stuck so there was a lot of debate for
like years in the 2015 era about like
how do we get algorithms that don't do
this
okay all right and this problem is
completely [__] made up and doesn't
matter at
all as it turns out uh in high
Dimensions these don't exist ah so and
again the way to visualize it is coin
flip so in order for you to get stuck in
a local Minima here you have to be at
and this is the cheap explanation not
the super math one uh you have to have
in every direction the uh the gradient
has to be what it has to be facing up in
every direction right every direction
has to be a curve upwards like that okay
sure so you have no other position
around you that's lower sure okay yeah
okay and if you think of each of those
as a coin flip whether it's going to be
up or down it's an independence
assumption which not which isn't great
but if you think of it that way for
Simplicity okay when you have a thousand
coin flips one of them is going to come
up
heads all right fine
okay so that's the simple version of
there's some pap on this they get very
mathy but that's the simple version of
it that's most like 80%
correct okay okay and I'm saying it's
the 80% correct version is if I
understand the more complicated version
I actually don't and it doesn't
matter usually wouldn't say that part
out loud but I'm going
to so uh anyways 16 is too small of a
number for that to be
true okay oh like the coin flips yes 16
is just too small of a number so when
you get to 16 stuff you can have stuff
like magically it works one run and then
it doesn't work the next run uhhuh you
can just deal with a lot of [__] so
generally we don't like the number 16
because of that uh 32 look if you have
to encode a whole bunch of different
things and concatenate them or something
like that then we kind of jam 32 usually
there's not much point in going that
small because ppus are nice and parallel
so usually you can at least afford 64
128 anyways yeah so yeah there you go
there's your Whirlwind tour of
optimization and how not to get nerd
sniped by local Optima
discussions okay I mean I think I
followed all of that yes um is a very
useful one because I swear so many
academics spent years thinking about
this [__] in
2015 I guess the one thing I'd follow up
with that then is I mean you're saying
that like a lot of lot of times you can
kind of just jump go to like 64 128 what
type of problem sets do you see really
like benefit from continuing to expand
upwards on channels like in the RL space
at
least are you just saying like you can
just default to like 128 just cuz I mean
that yeah just don't default to like
don't ever default to 16 don't default
yeah just don't default low but you can
just default higher well the way if
you're concatenating multiple things
like the GPU going to be fast up to 256
or 512 so if you have 512 and you have
four things use 128 if you have eight
things 64 and then you maybe start to
think about it if you have 32 but yeah
are you saying con catting as in like
the number of things inside of my flat
layer I'm coning or are you saying
like one second I don't actually know
where this paper is I forget what it was
called there was a very mathy paper from
around the 2015 to 2017 era that talked
about how the in actuality you have
saddle points in high Dimensions not
local Minima so that's why momentum is
needed but you actually don't care about
the Minima you just care about momentum
um yeah so as to your question so it's
just if you're encoding multiple things
uh and then you have to concatenate the
encodings together right so like you
right here you are I don't think you're
doing that you're just taking all I'm
coning is a single flat of like of agent
type parameters so these because these
are continuous right
those
are what what's in here no I don't I
don't believe so I believe that those
are um like let's see what did I have I
think it's
orientation whether it's holding an
object so they're all discreet um well
what's orientation what's the range of
orientation 0 to four and it's just 0 1
two three four or 0 one two
three dude come on you know how you know
not to do this by now don't you
no got you gota like one hot or embed
that
thing okay I certainly didn't do that
okay look one two three four right sure
yeah all right you're getting lot I know
how I know how I know how to one hot no
I'm not going to show you how to one hot
I'm showing you why you one hot you're
getting lots of research lessons here
you're getting like years worth of like
research lessons and like explanations
on stuff
it seems so
here this is the portion of the network
that your continuous variable is
affected by right so you could
technically have more inputs that go
like this right but this is the first
layer of your
network okay okay sure so you're going
to put you're going to put two into this
thing all right two inut yeah you're
going to just put two like the number
two the direction two this is a we this
is a
we this is a
we yeah yeah okay and then you also get
plus b a bias sure sure sure okay and
what you're telling this thing is it has
to come up with and it can't even do
this in one layer it's going to have to
figure it out over multiple
layers it has to figure out that this
number uh that says two actually two is
not Clos to three then it is to
zero okay you've actually what this
number represents is essentially four
buckets
right that are all evenly
spaced okay but by giving it a
continuous value that's not what you've
told it you've told that this bucket is
adjacent this bucket is adjacent and
this bucket is
adjacent
okay all right so that's kind of like if
I just like were to take your data like
you had like some Flat state data if I
were to just reshape it into 2D and
throw a convolution on
it do you see the analogy the analogy is
I'm telling you that the data is 2D but
it's
not okay you you putting a wrong
inductive
bias okay so would you say that at the
moment it's almost entirely then just
using the the the map data to figure out
it the problem how would you test this
well I would just I imagine do one
that's one hotted and one that's not how
would you test this using the train
Network that you have right now without
having to retrain anything just take it
out keep going I could just entirely
take out that OBS and then see see if it
trains about roughly the same
performance and if it does it's
clear without
retraining uh I guess within eval I can
just take it off or
exactly that's how you measure model
dependence on it you can see you can
just zero it and see if it actually
matters okay so I did do that earlier
when I took out a continuous variable um
and then it seemed to have entirely
worked fine okay cool it is possible
that it learns this thing like I said
you're putting a wrong inductive bias
that doesn't mean it can't eventually
figure it
out across enough iterations sure just a
heck of a lot easier because look if you
put this in as a one hop right
mhm
right uh hang on oh I literally just
need one neuron for this I think do I
need one
neuron well whatever you can see it's a
multiplicative gating right like your
weights just you just have to wait to
one for the one that you care about and
zero for the rest of them yeah yeah yeah
it's like way easier so usually we do
that embeddings are also nice those are
nice but I think that they tend to be
slower for our really high per networks
so uh we tend to go with one Hots um
yeah so you can just one hot and Cat a
one hot and con cat will do that it'll
be pretty quick uh you don't need to do
it if you have something that's 01 you
can usually leave it as continuous by
the way because because like it can just
fit a bound between zero and one just
fine yeah but it's like when you get and
even like zero if you have like
Direction can go positive or negative as
like a continuous that's fine it's just
like when you start to have like you
know a bunch of numbers where they're
supposed to all be unit distance from
each other because they're just enums
uhhuh all right so there you go there's
that so that's two two good things out
of this so
far um
it's good this is
good and oh you don't even need a
transpose here looks
like wait hang
on how do you not need a
transpose I
confused how do you
transpose usually the comp takes in the
layer dim first
wasn't that what the first one's for
like the first you have batch right
yeah and
then oh because it's a 3D conf it's a 3D
conf so
the and then I already position it so I
just had to reshape it a slightly based
off of How It's coming in from
observations wait why is it a 3D com
again why did we choose to pick a 3D com
what how many states the blocks
have just zero and
one why isn't it a 2d
comp couldn't this be a 2d comp that
goes 955 and nine is the number of input
channels we talked about doing a 3D comp
because you wanted to save like have it
determine relationships of uh positions
of blocks in 3D yeah wait wait you're
right um
yes yes that makes sense because
otherwise it'll put the all of the input
channels on everything okay we'll test a
couple different network architectures
yes the thing that I said made sense
good I was right
originally yeah this is fine
then uh you don't have a 3x3x3
does this need a one
H okay no I understand yeah this is good
this is
fine uh player info.
float
yep and then so do you have to always
change everything to floats search for
it to pass through the network
okay uh it depends on the
network usually yes though P torch is
either going to want Floats or Longs
okay that's what I thought that was but
to confirm annoying but at least if you
don't like yes it's annoying that you
have to do the copy here but at least
it's a copy on the GPU already instead
of having to load more data onto the
device this St is on device right oh
okay so if you were to if you were to do
float and then put it to the network
then you're loading four times the
amount of data onto the
GPU you see
M
cool this is fine sometimes what I'll do
is I will make this CN output feature be
like 128 and then this one be 128 that
way you don't need the projection cuz
then the output's 256 but this is
totally
good so this one I didn't add a railu
after on the
projection and I knowbly should
okay do you know the
uh do you know why you usually do that
no do you know the point of
activations I mean Jen do it to keep
within various bounds that are easier to
no do you know what happens if you have
a whole bunch of layers with no
activations uh they
explode no or go to zero no no okay then
no no well you're correct there if you
normal if you don't normalize them but
that's not the
reason
so I'm going to ignore the biases here
because the biases don't matter the math
is exactly the same so if you
have if your network is like
uh
W
W2
right okay so you do wait and then wait
two and then wait three right all right
okay Matrix multiplications
associative
mhm oops two w one
you have a one layer
Network this is one Matrix you
see okay so what if you don't have the
the re in between then this your three
layer net collapses to be a one layer
net so you could have just made a one
layer
net just one bigger one it's not even
bigger
guess it's the
same it's literally the same CU W3 the
output di is going to be the output dim
of Y and the input di is the input dim
of X okay so this Matrix is going to end
up being the same
size now yes you could technically have
a big Matrix in the middle but it can't
really be doing anything because it's
equivalent to this
I'm trying to remember on Ru itself but
isn't aren't you just like effectively
taking a value and you're just cutting
it off at like zero and then it's a
nonlinear transformation
though that can't be represented by
matrix
multiply so the
nonlinearity is well it's a nonlinearity
it makes your function
nonlinear okay so there
well you can learn a nonlinear mapping
so first of all the associativity you
can't do that any have aity and then
second of all you can actually learn to
set the weights to make a more complex
nonlinear function because you have
multiple of these in
succession so you can start
approximating more nonlinear Inc complex
functions
okay yeah so this is the basis of why we
use these nonlinearities now why we use
specific nonlinearities is more black
magic but yes this is why they're called
nonlinearities because they break up the
linearity by being
nonlinear sure okay there you go then
three use I will add that back I'm
intending to
deliver useful information for your
effort
here okay see level State
node
what what's this
that's for my breath for search in order
to keep track of
States
okay do you use this in
here in there no but I thought it had to
be defined oh no you only have to Define
stuff you use in the scon if you define
a struct you have to have every element
of the struct but you don't need structs
that you don't use in syon oh okay then
I can cut that yeah you can cut you can
get rid of anything that you don't use
except if you if you define a struct you
need everything in the struck so it
knows how to lay it out in memory and in
the same order but you don't have to
Define anything you don't
use this okay to know yeah you got to
experience the joy that is is making
neuron Nets work in pure SE sure did it
was full of
joy hey I had to write the initial
puffer net Library okay yeah
yeah but I had to do one for 3D com too
I had to I to do it all from pretty much
I know I had to come up with the test
hardest thing it was a pain it took a
few days I swear I did this as well
right after running my 50k I don't know
something like Snapped in my head or
something I don't know must have broken
myself to think that that was a good
idea but hey it made all our demos work
on the
web the the tests also work pretty great
I mean that that was a pretty clever
idea I mean I guess not in theory it's
not complicated but it certainly it
helps a
lot I was so annoyed that apparently I
had it right the first time and all he
was doing was giving it a way more
complicated end that it just couldn't
figure
out is this not a mem copy
it looks like a M
Copy is it a different data
type uh the order the order look at the
order zero is just Zero D oh never
mind this might be a M Copy and if it is
it'll speed this up
substantially okay
this that's only in C though so I don't
mean it's not going to well it's just
when you run it on the web yeah um I
think with one agent it'll be fast
regardless to be fair but uh you know
these these libraries aren't super fast
if you're running these in real
time yeah running this on the web I was
curious on how you whenever we get to
that on this is uh right now the C file
generates a new level every time you uh
you finish or die in that level that's
fine okay I was wondering if that would
just be like slower on on web or
it's not running
JavaScript it's generally the code will
be like a fixed Factor slower or
whatever on
web it's not massive though as far as
I'm
aware process player
board okay I think this is still a me
copy
did you set your OBS 3D up so that you
can actually do it this
way say that again you saw the trick I
used to make this thing actually work
right
you there's a trick that you need to do
for this to work for freeing
well you see that you're freeing you're
just freeing a layer and and everything
in that layer is freed like there's not
a specific free 3D com function
right so there's a trick to make that
work I think I made one no you probably
did if you just copied the
existing like the com 2D so there's
logic there but in the wrapper is kind
of a fun
trick did
I so you see how I cic the entire thing
here I the com 2D plus the buffer size
uh-huh and then get
weights where output gets is the pointer
float layer plus
one mhm so when you call free on the
comp on this comp 2D layer it also frees
the buffer because it's made in one
malic mhm so I don't know if you did
that for
yours uh I I mean I have puffer a Dage
in there so
just
uh I I we'll get down to it we'll get
down to it but I'm I'm pretty sure I
copied pretty close to like make it work
that's just a nice trick to know for SE
and perf
test very good we'll do this one last
because it's a big one 1,500 lines
changed
added
added you have high perf PA as a comment
up
here oh I think I have that in almost
every single end I've made
why it's just like I just copy paste the
previous file I worked on and then I
delete things that are unnecessary and I
always forget to UND delete
that all right yeah I mean I'll just um
I'll just delete that right now on my
side it's
fine that one's just like a pure
laziness that's it's whatever
you left this pass in here because if
you put a break point right one line
before it doesn't work without the
pass because I leave this in sometimes
by accident the same
reason oh yeah okay I'll take that out I
do the exact same thing and I forget to
take the thing out cuz the break
points all right this is all
standard yeah I didn't really have to
really change anything on the on thep
file for this one okay and now this is
where this is where midwit will tell you
that this is bad
code the 12,000 for Loops midwich will
tell you that this is bad
code this is actually perfectly fine
code
yep that just looks like perfectly fine
code this isn't tiled or anything is
this
tiled no it's not
tiled yeah okay
I actually I posted uh myON 2D
implementation and uh I was like ah you
know it's not pretty but it gets the job
done or whatever and people were posting
that it was too many Loops not that like
it didn't have any of the advanced
tricks that actually makes those
implementations
fast it was very amusing do you know
about Matrix tiling nope
I do not the big bottleneck in like
these CPU implementations is the cache
so if you if you break your Matrix into
a bunch of little blocks and you do like
2x two or 4x4 like blocks of Matrix
multiplications
adjacently okay then you can actually
make the thing several times
faster I don't have it in my
implementation because it's annoying to
implement correctly will keep me it
somewhat clean
and you add a bunch of and it's been
proven that that's a oh that's standard
that's like standard and everything it's
it's an identical operation it's just
faster do you see that as something that
we're going to end up adding maybe I
mean this is just our inference Network
for the web so if our web demos really
get limited and we really want to show
some cool stuff off right I guess that
is fair this is really just for the web
so I mean if we wanted to do web GPU
eventually we could do that as well like
I I don't know can we just put Cuda in
here probably not but maybe there's some
like generic GPU stuff we can do I don't
know yeah I mean I don't think there's
going to be really any of the M that are
going to be so ridiculous
that you need that performance
Library it's not bad for you know
however many hundred lines of code it is
it just does everything
mhm your comp 3D and then here's this
and the one thing that we should do at
some point is convert all of these
things in the test file to memory views
uh we'll leave that alone for now
because I'm still not sure I actually I
looked into replacing syon just briefly
and the one thing I could not get around
is the memory views are so so nice so
that's the one thing i' I'd be hard to
I'd be hard pressed to replace scroll up
a sec did I do the calic thing on on for
the
buffer uh yes you did okay I think you
probably just copy pasted it but this is
why it worked this is why it's there
it's because if you did two Cal then you
need to have a free com 3D
method right but this way you can just
free the layer and it
works so that's
nice and this is oh you you started
doing some Shader
work yeah I mean
isation no this is C it was just trial
and error but I mean that's just
a this was copied from uh what was it uh
BR
lib yeah this would look like it's a
pretty standard Shader type thing and
this is just generic lighting right yeah
and I have like two or three of these
files because at least I think it said
it recommended to have a different type
for GLS 100 and GLS 330 yeah so 100 is
the one that runs on web okay so you
mean delete the 330 ones or 300 on
that's you need the 330 one to run on
desktop okay yeah that's one of the
obnoxious
things I think that's uh rib limitation
at the moment because you should be able
to
use webgl2 support a higher version yeah
this stuff I just liting I just Rec copy
pasted this stuff I honestly didn't even
like read it well then I'm not going to
review it if you didn't write
yeah that's a
Shader 2 megabyte background image yeah
okay so that made do you want me to com
press it what's this it's the background
for the uh and that's the
model model the model 7 how is the model
mix because it looks lit no the
model yeah like the little dude the
little character oh that model
okay yeah okay
fine uh we might want to look at some
sizes of stuff at some point because
that's I lowered him already to like 5%
level detail of uh what it was it was
gigantic earlier auto file should not be
this large um that's
weird the reason being that this is
about a third of the whole size puffer
lip going into the
download but I I will allow it for now
because your thing is cool why are there
and there's another one
here what's this so all right so that
one is the texture for the
Rocks so it spawns the cubes now so it's
a cube resolution of this
texture oh it's probably just 52 by
512 it's okay I guess that adds
up it's got to be UNC what's itgb
it's the object format to that I export
from uh blender
blender that's compatible with it has to
be compatible with rib so glb is the one
that I use because it's good to do
animations with is it un compressed
format
imaginable well there's another one I
think but there's only like two or three
that real is is allowed to be used in I
will merge this as is if you can find
some export settings that would kind of
be nice because now I'm seeing that
you're adding 15 Megs to the download
here all right I I'll I'll see how I can
reduce it I'm certain it can be smaller
the goal is to not have to eventually
make a separate resources thing for
puffer if we can just keep everything
small enough
um yeah but we have to kind of be
careful when people start adding 10 mb
per
M
and yeah I mean I don't know oh yeah so
this is something that actually is
really important in terms for you to
take a look at is so I had to change uh
rib to 5.5 for it to work because the
lights file in RB doesn't work unless
you're on
5.5 um okay this
change every you're going to have to
redownload whatever rayb you're on um
because this will nuke every environment
if you don't have um the right rayb in
your own
directory like you won't be able to
compile
okay so so it just means like everybody
who's new that is downloading it is
going to be fine but if somebody like
say this gets pushed in and committed
right and then they pull in like the
latest they have to make sure to delete
their build folder and then to rebuild
well first of all then this should say
5.5
here instead of this didn't you see that
I I changed this um so that it would
explicitly have the the name here so
that this couldn't
happen I had issues with that on mine
okay then we should look at this I think
what we're going to probably do is let's
because this is a big PR we'll merge
this into a Dev Branch today and I'm
going to merge my neoc carb stuff as
well to the same Dev Branch uh within
the next day or so so that we can all
play with that and then we'll you know
we'll do integration work to make sure
it's all good in Maine we can put it on
the website though even before we merge
it to Maine if you want so sure
but yeah I mean this is something that
like because I'm also on Mac right so
this is this is also I had to make sure
that stuff worked on my platform and
then um and we definitely want that to
work which is why I added the Mac build
test as
well well actually I think that guy
added the Mac one and then I added the
cond
versions oh you had to change a bunch of
stuff didn't you yeah
okay then we have to be we have to be
careful with this because this is where
you can break everything
here why do you why are you downloading
R lights cuz it's not a part of the
standard Library it's in like the
examples is it
big no it's like but you it I I have to
add it to the include of RB's uh folder
for any of the lights files to
compile oh I was going to say we should
just stick it in uh in the
source right instead of adding like an
extra spot for the download to screw
up just stick it in the in the source or
the assets or
whatever
F then
okay so all this stuff you want to be
careful with and also I have this
downgraded WB as
well uh this is probably just a random
right I think that's just random I mean
I
just I think that's just what I have on
my computer I'm
guessing
o yeah okay so
is trash pickup not in no it is it's so
you you delete it and then added it back
it's fine so the thing I'm worried about
here is that I spent like [__] two
days trying to figure out all this [__]
and I think you just rolled it back to a
previous
version because this is what we had
before and this does not work with what
with cond or something or
Okay so this stuff here I think actually
I would like you to amend this portion
of the pr because this will just break
everything immediately even in
death
um find name space plus find packages
okay so which one do you want me to go
off of because I wasn't certain whether
to go off of 2.0 or oblations because
they're different in 2 this is in
2.0 this is in
2 okay so I just I just assume that
oblations was probably one of the more
recent oh I see no so what happened
there is I made this oblan Branch to
work on my neoc carb stuff right and
then I had to do I had to do this
maintenance upgrade right and I didn't I
didn't like resync my ablations Branch
so that's why this
happened okay so as if I can keep the
rough syntax of 2.0 of how that set up
up high is and just make sure that it
works on the five then it's fine yeah
which you should just be able to copy
this
copy this as is the file that's in there
and just change the 5.0 to 5.5 and be
done I do know it was Miss it had a Mac
error on 2.0 well then we'll have to fix
the one Mac error right um
yeah it was passing the online
test yeah it was um I think I did it
locally because I I was when I went to
go do the pong work I then you know went
back to the 2.0 Branch pulled the most
recent 2.0 and then branched to a new
pong um and it didn't work because it
didn't have uh
it it did not
have well the rest of this looks good
we're right yeah yeah besides the big
one yeah yeah besides the whole
code H okay I'm trying to think if I
want to look at the diff or if I should
look at the source for
this what do you think
uh I
mean I feel like it's generally pretty
clear but well I'm just trying to think
so there's 1500 lines but I don't want
to re-review a th
lines okay I might need both of these
open we'll
see yeah I just don't remember what was
the first time you you read through it
and like at what point did you have it
is there a reason these are
macros
um Beyond just like functions they could
just be inline functions if you want
them to be per like Fast
right yeah but the mask like I over8 and
like that whole line gets really ugly
when you bunch of
times wait it's set bit of mask eye
right yeah so I just call that you call
like you call it this right yeah so you
could do isn't this just a function
like this is just void set bit of of no
Char yeah I mean in theory it's just a
function but I just defin it up top okay
I generally avoid macros unless they
cannot be
avoided I would say yeah I mean that can
be a function
yeah also do we need this I forget if we
need I think we do need this
thing to my understanding you need the
though I don't
think we only need I think we need this
in the C
maybe
right cuz this doesn't need to you don't
care about this when you're running the
end from
python oh wait maybe you
do yeah you do [__] well for roll out I
think you did yeah you exactly yeah you
do damn
it BFS Direction
vectors oh okay I see
sure originally there was another layer
and you wanted me to split it out into x
and z yeah no this is It's better this
way this is
fine shimmy wrap
constants this is something yeah it's
it's it's a part of the wrapping logic
and so oh the sh okay it was just easier
for me to for those conditions handle
how like what happens to its orientation
whenever you go left right
um and it wasn't like an easy like just
modulo thing
we have reset
level relev some weird spacing around
here I don't know what the ID did yeah I
think it's just whenever I do changes in
the puffer box versus when I have it on
my local ID wait is this a
tab oh dude geez
gross what do you edit this in puffer
box it should not be putting tabs in
there
uh
character oh that's
why uh yeah if you I mean it comes with
my VI installed but at the very least if
you're going to use VI you need to have
the there's like one little thing to add
to the any to like expand
tabs that everyone
uses okay do that because otherwise
it'll do this to your
code this probably looks fine on your
machine but then when you commit it it's
render it's like renders like this
because it's a tab character
same thing
here see in the next next version of
this code if I were to redo this log
buffer code because it gets copied
everywhere I'd probably do it without
needing the free method I just like add
this size to the initial
calac and then you wouldn't and then
you're just GNA free buffer the only
thing with it is that you do have to be
careful because uh if you write over the
bounds of one section into the next you
won't get memory warnings with f
[Music]
sanitize then maybe it's best leaving it
separated yeah it's just you save you
don't need a free method right
so this is why I haven't done not area
allocators are basically this as well
like you just make you make your own
calic or whatever um that just like just
calics a gig and then it just gives you
pointers to Whatever Whenever you
request new memory it's really easy to
make one of those but you lose F
sanitize on them why I don't do it it's
way easier to fix like you forgot to
free this and it is to fix you rode
across a buffer and don't have a warning
oh for sure I mean even just because I'm
on Mac half the time I don't even have F
sanitize on that you absolutely need
You're really hurting yourself without
that thing C is substantially less
painful with that well that's why after
doing any kind of major work I just ship
it to the box and then I run something
and I find out if it's a problem that's
fine I if you're getting yourself a
machine you'll have nice local Linux
presumably
however T minus however many weeks or
months till it arrives but yeah yeah 50
I don't have my 90 bucks yet
either okay this is very nice you have
like this very clean like
small struct I like
this this looks like my puzzle State uh
this looks like my state set code got
net L I did think it was pretty clever
how I how I set up the the plg to use
the same logic as the um I'd have put
that function up
here level the puzzle
State oh I just higher up in terms of
reading ability okay well I generally I
will group my methods that go with
structs right so you declare the struct
and then all the stuff that's for that
struct sure sure
sure do you mean to go ahead and do that
on my copy right now or you can do that
I are minor things right the only thing
I really care about that I really want
you to do before you PR this is like
unfuck the setup.py and everything else
is like whatever you have time to do I
don't care as much I'll merge it as is
if you want um because we're kind of
past this the point of having to do
style stuff cu the errors that you have
here are like so minor and like a lot of
it's honestly
preference like you've kind of gotten
past that state so congrats you can
officially write good
code also P front
32 this is I think that this is going to
match the original so I think this is
going to be I did not break the old code
which is
nice so we'll be able to PR this to
today as well so we'll make a Dev branch
that it'll contain your thing and neoc
carps and everything else sounds good
and probably be able to toss pong in
there as well yes I because I would like
you to if you want to run some quick
experiments on that that would be
awesome
that's a like a good BS side science
project to
do guys so we got set puzzle
I think there's some nice syntax you can
use for this but this is
fine never going to complain about like
the simple readable thing the struct
initialization syntax is kind of nice
but this is
good
allocate
no all these little free methods kind of
bother me but it's fine I haven't found
a way around it yet so I'm not going to
ding you for not having bothered
window
[Music]
bounds that's for adjusting the
observations so that when you're at the
edge of the map it pushes your window
further to maximize what you can see
MH oh that's a funny way of doing it huh
so it you made it so that if you go to
the you made it like like a fix screen
game or whatever on almost where like if
you go up to the edge of the map it like
Scrolls back so you like that's that
like you become you basically end up in
the corner and then you can see the
whole screen away from the corner
correct correct that's actually a really
nice I have not thought about that
before I don't know if that'll screw you
up to be honest
though because you don't know where the
character is anymore no because the
character's still in there the character
is a part of the OBS of the of the map
yeah I just don't know if it'll confuse
the
conet it might might
not I this is a reasonable thing to do
we'll see whether it causes pain and
suffering but seems
fine I think in mine I just like cut the
port I just cut the loop short so I just
like I just have them
zeroed oh you just zero it ever in that
direction yeah or whatever yeah so does
that mean like your your OBS gets cut
though like
because well you're the same size
the same size observation but it's a lot
of it's going to be
zero well no I mean like if you're okay
so s you're at the left corner right MH
and assumingly your windows is centered
on you yep are are you only giving it
values to the right so you're going to
have the same size observation but if
you are in the bottom left corner then
only the top right corner is going to be
populated with real data and the rest
will be
zeros so you're still centered you are
still centered ah okay that's how I have
it at the moment I don't know maybe
yours is fine I this is really kind of
cool that's like how a game would do it
right this is how a game would do
it so this is
cool yours will break if uh the board is
smaller than the OBS window I think
yeah that will never be the case in this
at least in this
scenario because it's 10 by 10
by
yeah reset
yeah whenever I see these two line
functions I always wonder like is there
a way to get rid of these and then if
the solution involves doing something
worse than the original then I just
don't it's usually what I think
about well the reason why I like it for
like a legal move in death is because
then it's very easy for you to change
what the like the reward
is um does it get called multiple places
yeah cuz there's tons of places where
moves are illegal and there's like a
couple conditions where you can die yeah
no that's fine
then I think then the alternative would
be if the code is structured such that
it never returns
early uh then whenever you have an
illegal move it would just be this line
and then this one would get set at the
end of the episode step or something
because it would just be plus equals n
fors
zero it's
fine it's fun cuz if you wanted to log
this separately it would be easier the
way you have
it okay death is
goal move you have these
directions
bfx I think these are just Direction
vectors not BFS Direction because you're
using them in
move yeah I mean because I basically
rewrote the entire movement system when
I did the level generation and so I just
copied and then I refactored what my old
movement system was so that both the
level generation and the RL and use the
same logic system yeah your code your
code passes the bar anyways right these
are tiny little things these are like
nitpicks um I don't see
anything I don't see anything crazy
major that's like dude you can't do that
on the
like C code side anymore I see like RL
like AI errors still that's going to
take longer because that's like the
research background right but I think
you've gotten it you've gotten stuff
good on the M side which is hey I mean
you should be proud of that that's you
know a few months ago you have you
didn't do any of this type of Dev yeah I
mean I'm I think I started back in like
September something like that I don't
know it's like six months
now one second must ban the stupid bot
get out of
here
okay all there are I think in thish file
there's only like one or two instances
where there's big loop like big
loops and which again is not always bad
the only thing that's bad is when you
have obviously unnecessarily nested
logic it's conf it's more confusing than
it should be right so people say oh like
it's always bad to have a bunch of Loops
no there are reasons where you'd want to
do it the com is a perfect
example I've gone back and forth on
these types of things before I think I
don't like these anymore these like on
liners I think I always yeah I think I
always write the whole thing out with
the braces
now I actually and this is the one that
everyone hates on me for but I actually
do prefer Python's uh White space to C's
like braces and
parentheses
um but yeah I think in either case I
would still write it
out i' I I'm going to come around to
this see I'm going to come around to
this but in my head I want to put a
space after this brace that's just me
though like I know that this brace is
the replacement for the space if you
were writing it in Python so you should
just leave it like this so I will come
around to that but I will always include
even for the oneliner I will include
this with the closing
brace for oneliner you you'll open brace
return zero Clos brace after I didn't do
that Nur Mo 3 because it was the first
CM I played with um and it was a port
but uh yeah I think that that's been I
de did it to egotistically lower the
lines of
code yeah well the thing is you know
anything that's if you're going to
optimize you're not trying to optimize
that as a metric right you're trying to
re optimize the reason for that
existing right you're trying to optimize
complexity right you're trying to make
it
simpler sure I do think that the
breaking conditions out into like
readable things is like helped a
lot breaking because before like in that
in climb like those four like uh
conditions that have to pass in order
for like can climb to happen um it's
like really it's like super ugly when
you have like all of them
together yeah no this is totally
fine uh they could be Bulls I think I
thought Bulls weren't chill because
scyon and like it gets really weird so I
just do they're weird in scyon they're
chill in C you do have to include b.h
but they're chill oh okay the weird
about C is that c uses error codes uh C
like idiomatically uses error codes from
returns so like it it will return like
one if there's an
error so actually this is is this would
be an error
here so you have them
flipped which is funny right because
like I I would prefer it to be like true
is Success right but they use error
codes for some
reason weird you don't have to you don't
have to care about that I'm GNA I will
eventually decide on that whether I want
to do the idiomatic thing or the
sensible
thing but yeah if you ever
what zero being true sounds
illegal well but the thing is it's you
say error equals uh climb of thing right
and then if it's if error
M I think it's if error not equals zero
or
something which is kind of like GO error
not equal
nil which everyone hates on but I think
it's perfect
fine okay
drop your logic
here Direction
vectors yeah you densified stuff a
little too much you're starting to golf
a little bit so don't do that but
otherwise it's all
fine I mean yeah this is just generally
nice pretty easy to read code
I don't like the macros this could just
be a function
but it's fine
otherwise look you did it right
here you literally did it right
here right oh in terms of a macro yeah
the same exact thing yeah
BFS is block stable jeez okay
uh I'm not going to get too much into
this but I think wait BFS is valid
position wait
return so it's
stable but this is not a BFS right this
is this is not calling is this call this
doesn't call itself and there's no while
no no okay okay
so this
originally so that's so this is just an
adjacency check and I originally had an
is block stable function in
myh and then I rewrote all of the
movement Logic for BFS like to do level
gener
so no I'm aware but I so I had is block
stable and I basically had like this a
similar logic in another function but in
the levels f file because this is all
done in
levels. so I had to rename it because
they were both named the same thing but
they had different
inputs okay yes he doesn't do that
probably for good reason so having BFS
there is just an old naming it's it can
just be is block stable BFS and like is
valid position can just be is valid
position it has nothing to do
BFS if you change something you can't
just call this block stable you do
actually have to do BFS right
for is block stable wait don't you I
thought that you have to like
recursively compute if you change a
block don't you have to recursively
compute to see if it's
stable if yes if you move a block yes
you do and anything it it it was
touching and
supporting so this actually doesn't tell
you if the block is stable it no it
does that you don't have to you don't
have to recursively check this is just
checking that individual position
but that individual position is affected
by the other ones
correct so isn't is block stable if you
have not just done the recursion well
it's always true unless you've done the
recursion
no this this is this this is used inside
of the recursion oh okay so that's the
piece that was missing
cool so yeah this is an internal thing
this is a helper function okay
the way this is s is structured suggests
that probably the recursion could be
structured cleaner but we will look at
it see like this will fall this isn't
recursive
okay I think some things are a little
confusing here because like you would
expect to be able to call will fall on a
position and tell if the block will fall
but it actually doesn't tell you that
unless because it doesn't actually do
the recursion it expects you've already
done the recursion
right this is just another helper
function that's required alongside so
willf fall just calls BFS block stable
and adds more conditionals
okay here's the actual thing right this
is the that's the actual thing it's a q
which is that's
BFS Q
rear you eat the Q you add the to the
end and then you eat the Q from the
start right yeah yeah that's BFS
good it's fun because you can eat the
queue from the end and then it's
recursion I mean then a step for search
okay so I could go over the intern like
the structure of the helpers and helpers
and stuff for this but I don't know if
it would be particularly productive to
do that so I think we'll just say yep
there's a big annoying recursive uh
there's a big annoying well not
recursive but substitute for recursive
method
right yeah cuz I think you mentioned me
one time you didn't like doing recursion
so this is just like this is better well
you wouldn't be able to do bre search
with it
either this is the way that you
implement breath first
search and within this you have to
remember there's like it's basically
like two within it it's like two
iterative within
itself um because it's also handling
when a block is falling how far should
it
fall okay I mean I could go over the
details if this if you want I don't
think it would be too productive because
it's mostly going to be nitpicking your
helper
structure but I mean this is acceptable
and it works yeah
well it runs so does a burning
bus yeah you should the amount of code
I've seen that works but it's like
terribly this is fine though plus
I mean I can tell that you're generally
getting your code's generally just
getting
cleaner like you're caching variables
more coherently and stuff like
that yeah I mean trying to get better
with each end you should I mean the way
that honestly one of the main things
that's like the reason I've been able to
build puffer and be able to keep things
clean and everything is I think it just
it bothers me when my code is bad more
than it bothers most other people like
it really bothers me when I ship
something that people are going to have
to read That's confusing or
convoluted yeah I mean just the other
day there was another contributor who
looked at my rware implementation was
able to figure out his issues after read
yeah it's really nice when that
happens
um I mean ultimately like I think the
vast majority of problems come down to
code quality like just the amount of
stuff I mean hey the whole the whole
parito optim optimality like that whole
carves implementation the amount of
stuff that was wrong I found in that I
don't think anybody would have been able
to figure out with the original code the
way it was it was so convoluted I
rewrote it and then the core of it ended
up being like 50 lines math right and
that's
it yeah it's not terribly bad
mhm but like in order to think clearly
you have to put in a lot of work right
the code has to be clear for you to be
able to think
clearly and this is all good this is way
less nested crazy logic this is
good I know people m about like oh yeah
code quality doesn't matter ha shift it
it works and it makes money haha but
it's like okay but how about all the
stuff that you weren't able to do that
you didn't know that would have been
easy to do because your code sucked
right yeah I'm with
that like you see what you do you don't
see what you don't see the potential
that you
lost and like in puffer right the
potential was the entirety of RL the
whole field running 100 times slower
than it should be
running that was what the Cod that was
the whole thing from that I mean a lot
of the stuff we've done in puffer is
dramatically simpler than a lot of the
stuff that's out there but we actually
cared about like going down making
things simple and then seeing the
problems that were
there from hang is
good apply action is good
front yeah apply actions the function
that drives
everything because apply action is what
is like being called in step and then
apply actions also being what is called
what's called in um during the level
generation to verify
Solutions I mean there are some things
that are a matter of taste as well that
you'll just pick up over time for
instance you see how you have like
different arguments in the middle here
but then you have n at the end n at the
end yeah like the arguments in the
middle are different typically the
argument that you use the most goes
first and then the next most used one
and so on and so forth so that your
method signatures end up being like you
almost always know what the start of
your method signature is going to be for
objects or for things that you have to
include and then the extras are at the
end so they're very small things to pick
up but these are like these are things
you pick up over time this code is now
cons I would consider this code is now
good and uh this is now of the quality
that even for a moderately complex
project like this basically any first
year CS student is going to be able to
follow what you've
done which is what you should aim for
yep
yeah there's some probably there's some
conditions here that could be cleaned up
with else ifs like this would be else if
else if not walkable for instance
but these are
small shimmy
you know one tool I would really like to
have that I don't have unfortunately is
I wish I had like a call graph thing
that I could just see of your code oh
like what how many things are being
called by other things
de
M that I really should actually get one
of those because that would be like
that's one of the clearest ways of just
seeing
right I mean you kind of do this
mentally in your
head when doing this stuff but yeah that
like something like that would be
good because that'll catch things that
I'm missing I'm sure
okay now we're at the BFS stuff yeah so
this is a new thing
visited yeah because ter Place yeah in
each place I had
to basically store the state of which
it's currently
at apply every action to it determine if
an action is illegal or illegal and then
store that next
state while also maintaining if the
visited node has already been seen in
the hash okay I'm terrified let's
see it's a little
spooky okay can you please just explain
to me why a breath for search involves
hashing at all
uh this was to reduce the amount of
states needed to uh while finding the
optimal
solution
because okay so um you started like a
place right and yes you are like you do
all your actions right and then you then
you're in the next state and you apply
all your actions are you caching are you
cashing States
yes and the state is it's a whole puzzle
state so you came up with a hash for an
entire puzzle State
correct the [__]
okay because this I will ENT this
because this could be smart in in the
game what you can do is you can
basically set up yourself to go in
circles in
definitely like you can just go forward
and back right
so I don't want to score like another
state where I'm in the same block
position okay but then your position
orientation State I don't know what your
state is I guess like if you're climbing
or
whatever yeah robot States based on
climbing or being or
standing and then block grabbed is
self-explanatory but so there are a lot
of
these there's a ton there's like
Millions no I think there many more than
Millions
well oh
yeah have you actually seen how much the
cash can speed stuff
up have I measured it yes no okay this
is the first legitimate
error but I know I don't want to revisit
the same
state in
BFS when you say revisit the same state
is cach being used for across BFS calls
or within BFS
calls within it's not being used across
BFS
calls no
okay
um so I understand why you have a hash
function I don't understand why you have
a buffer of
hashes so I this puzzle right here this
is what I would
expect I would expect you to just need
this and like either need this or have a
hash function I guess technically you
you have both a hash function and this I
definitely don't understand why you have
a buffer of
hashes are you just cashing the hashes
so that you don't have to recompute
them I am caching let me take a look at
it okay because like here first thing
that you could do with breath first sech
would be that every time you get a new
state to
compare right you
instead of knowing if it's visited or
hold on knowing if
it's is this
just is this just your buffer of like
how many maximum visited notes you're
going to
have
oh that's the maximum size that I just
created for how many possible nodes you
can
visit that are going to be reasonably
static so you do a breath bir
search um and that's getting populated
with the hashes with and with the state
and the state correct
because well first of all the hash isn't
guaranteed to
work we can ignore that right
it's not
guaranteed did you is the reason that
you have both because the hashes there
can be collisions or yeah in the case of
collisions you have to compare if this
all the attributes of the state if you
end up running into a hash it's the same
hash as another one it's a backfall or
whatever like a back check to make sure
that they actually are independent oh
and you actually have that yeah okay
that is defensible
it's probably overbuilt but it's
defensible cuz yeah I'm going to be
honest I wouldn't have bothered with the
hashing at all I would have just written
the compare function then just recall
the compare
function oh uh wait I think I do have
one thing for you I have one big
optimization for
you let's see if uh let's see if you see
the optimization that I see for you it's
in this function in somewhere in these
lines I mean I would imagine it has to
be in the mem compare I mean the other
ones are
really it's a big optimization missed
here Big M
big optim is it is is it if the memory
size is the same
no though actually if they're not the
same then I think you always allocate
the same amount of memory don't
you because if you're
not no no no I do I do I I do I add
block bites is the same is the fixed
size for every blocks yeah I wasn't even
thinking about that do you know the big
optimization you missed
uh give me five more
seconds no
I this goes at the
end this goes after this yeah okay I
guess that's fair yeah these are fast
right these are fast return early this
check okay yeah that makes sense so one
big optimization Miss and I bet you that
this does more than that a lot of the
hashing
stuff yeah I mean I don't know how many
times equal puzzle State actually gets
called because it's doing the hashing
then if you weren't doing the hashing
and then you you had this first it would
probably be pretty slow sure
sure yeah that's a good catch yeah I'm
just trying to find useful things for
you you know you're going to put in the
work to make an end I'm going to give
you a proper review of everything that's
fair I appreciate
it yeah so the short circuits
right yeah so the first one short
circuits if it's not uh the same and
then it then it'll back check the equal
puzzle state if they're the same yeah so
you actually did a you actually did a
pretty darn smart hashing thing with
this I don't know if it's needed uh if
you really wanted to optimize the thing
though this would be a good way of doing
it um but then you missed you missed the
easy one
here so I did the hard one yeah you did
the Hard One to missed the easy one
which is usually how it
goes a lot of my work is about not doing
the hard things and just getting the
easy things
right that's usually where by win on
stuff is
visited uhhuh uhuh Mark visited this is
going to has
[Music]
probably
Malik uh
oh we're malaking noes I was under the
impression that if you Malik something
and you're instantly changing the
parameters like what's inside of it it's
a better operation than
calican cuz you're you're oh no no I
didn't this is not about Malik versus
cic this is about allocating at all
inside of runtime
stuff why can we
not yeah because you have to make a new
node to store it into the
table the table has memory associated
with
it so this visited you could Mal this
whole
table and then just leave
it would I just do that directly under
the line of it or like where would I
call that just in a knit somewhere yeah
I mean if you want this to be static
then yeah you do it here I would have
probably just done it in a
net because be a part of have that be a
part of the struct of tower climb or
what yeah you would do it in a net and
the reason that you would do it in a net
come to think of it is because you this
doesn't need to be maled because this
get statically allocated but because
this pointer is going to have stuff in
it like this puzzle state has a buffer
in it that needs to be allocated um yeah
yeah you would need to allocate like the
puzzle States and stuff inside of it so
yeah this would just go inside of like
the anit or whatever so this would be
done once on AIT and then you just clear
it and reuse it and then you never have
to Malik that actually would give you a
big speed boost Dynam damic miking very
slow and
bad okay also this is where you get
legitimate memory leaks right the
architecture of puffer you basically
never get memory leaks except like you
made the stuff at the start and forgot
to free it this is where you get like
legitimate memory leaks is doing
this I think I've done this one time
total in all the M that I wrote and it
was because in neural MMO the maps were
too big to put on the stack I think that
was the only think only place I've had
to do this so would I
also uh Malik
the the so visited nodes have States and
level information right or I think just
States information I don't remember um
what I also be maling the the blocks
inside of the init as well for each of
the spots inside the table
yeah now you don't actually even you
don't even have to go do this like you
can leave it as is uh cuz your code is
is fine enough it's fast I'm just
telling you like If This Were if I were
improv yeah this would be this would be
room for improvement so this is I mean
I'm finding a very small number of
substantial things here dynamic memory
allocations when they're not needed is a
big one and then missing a major
optimization is the other one here yeah
on the equal yeah I I basically I've
only I found only in your BFS stuff and
I've only found two things
and rest of this is
fine yeah this is a nice syntax I like
this more
calic
what your copy function C
[Music]
oh because it makes you a new puzzle
shate
yeah well I don't think it has to I
think it could be Malik well I don't
care about Malik versus
Kell I care I care you have explain it
though because you're creating a whole
new state and that state has blocks in
it and the blocks is an unsigned Char
star okay where's this get called
from uh that gets called inside
of where's copy puzzles to get called
uh I had to do this because originally I
was neighbors I was trying to pass it by
value I was trying to do uh the asterisk
and then apparently it it didn't make a
deep copy because asterisks don't handle
because it's a reference a yeah okay so
that's why I had to make that in order
to create the new puzzle State
here okay so you copy the puzzle
State because now I'm going to throw
that into apply action and it's going to
then apply all the moves to the copy and
not mess with the current
so if you were going to if you were
going to have to M like do a dynamic
malet somewhere which by the way you
don't have to do
um let me
see you could do it up here or
something you just need a buffer Noe is
all you need
right you basically just need an extra
node that you can use as a temp like a
copy spot
right uh but I need put into a que I put
those into a small no no they're not
into a que are you are you talking about
the which portion are you talking about
are you talking about the neighbors or
are you talking about like each state in
the in the
BFS well I mean the thing is now you've
created yourself a nested problem
this is how this is how you confuse
Yourself by complicating things so first
of all this would be source and D
okay you give it source and d and then
you don't have to C it here because
you've given it a source and death so
now it's whatever calls this's
responsibility to do that
right okay so now I guess we're in BFS
but there was another
layer we're in neighbors okay so
neighbors needs to provide you a buffer
note for this so this thing gets called
in the giant Loop repeatedly so we
probably don't want to have this thing
allocated up here either because this is
only a loop over six things so then this
has to give us a buffer note of some
sort
probably um and then get
neighbors wouldn't you need six buffer
nodes do you need six for each neighbor
see why do we get
neighbors
count what are you
returning out
neighbors
so yes oh well this is just the thing is
that then they shouldn't you don't
actually need these at all do you
because you go through these get
neighbors yeah cuz I'm passing out
Neighbors in by
reference well what you do here is this
is a loop over six things I statically
allocate the neighbors above
it but this is a loop over six things
right yes and then you do the same Loop
here well the loop afterwards for the
hashing so basically the reason that
this is complicated is because you made
an extra function that you didn't
need because this would go at the bottom
of the loop wouldn't
it this would just go at the bottom of
this
function right this would go right after
this somewhere around
here right it would just be a part of
this
loop I think it's an optimization thing
though because now I don't have to
Hash because I don't have to Hash
illegal States
where does it decide if the state's
illegal in apply action it says if not
success move was invalid then I free the
memory so in get neighbors yeah so if
you put if you put this
Loop yeah so if you do whatever you were
going to do over
here this
stuff does this have to get called on
everything regardless of it's legal or
not what is this that gets called on
only legal states okay so here if it's
legal so if you put it after this line
for
instance then it's only going to get
called if it's
legal okay yeah so what you did here is
that you you wrote this Loop
twice so you wrote this Loop right and
then you wrote this loop again here
and then you went uh oh wait I I now I
need a buffer of six things because I
have to go over this Loop of six times
right but the only reason that you need
that buffer is because he wrote the same
Loop
twice so this is a this is an instance
where adding a function actually creates
complexity for you because you wouldn't
need this buffer at all right you
wouldn't need this buffer if you didn't
have this function it would just be a
loop and it would just be one thing it
would just be one node right you'd only
need one buffer node
am I reading this
correctly if you okay if you I think you
reducing it from six to one right is
what you're trying to get at is like
because you're saying that it doesn't
need to have the second Loop and if you
always just pass it one at a time you
made this buffer right and then you say
okay I'm going to get all six neighbors
and then I'm going to Loop over the
neighbors right right no so I think
you're saying it just has to be one Loop
you just have to have a buffer of one
and you only that's you only have one
temp at a time you don't need six temp
because you're just going to you're
going to do everything that you need to
do over the neighbors one at a time as
you get
them yeah and I can just have the cut
off moment be above the visit the Happ
code I don't actually care if you do any
of this but no I see this is a design
thing right where you went oh it would
make sense to have a function that gets
the neighbors here yes logically that
would make sense but then the thing is
by having the nice function here that
says get neighbors instead of just
having a common get neighbors you
actually create problem what problem do
you create well now you need this BFS
node uh of Max neighbors and now every
single one of these has to get allocated
which then gets allocated in here right
right right so basically by trying to by
trying to piece out a portion of logic
here that only gets called once you
actually created yourself a bigger
problem which is now buried in here
which is now for every single node you
have a uh a malet right whereas if you
didn't have this function right if you
didn't have this like here if you left
this function as this and then you tried
to fix this problem what you would have
to do is you would have to probably up
here you would make a buffer node at the
top because you only need one and then
You' have to pass the buffer node into
here and then you would have to pass the
buffer node into here right so you have
to drag a buffer node through all this
logic but if you didn't have this
function you wouldn't have that problem
you would just make the buffer node
you would just make your buffer node up
here somewhere and then you would use it
here and you wouldn't have to pass to
anything and you wouldn't have a problem
and the only problem that You' have is
you'd have a somewhat a somewhat larger
BFS function but that's totally
fine you see
yeah okay so again I don't care if we do
this this is just like teachable stuff
yeah know I follow you right and this
the thing is like the reason I har on
this is this type of thing taken to its
extreme is exactly how people destroy
their code bases like this is why every
single code base that I read in Academia
is Shi because it'll be like oh we
should make a function for this okay and
then I go into that oh we should make a
function for this internal thing and
then it goes six layers deep and then
they completely lose track of what
they're actually doing with their data
and when I unwrap all the functions and
I like delete everything that's
redundant I end up with a fifth of the
code every time
so you see what I mean yeah right like
literally that's all I do it's like
brain dead simple like anybody should be
able to do it but nobody does it and you
end up with a fifth of the code I just
did this with the carbs repository and I
got a soda hyper parameter tuning out
with the MapIt because it revealed all
the bugs that nobody would have been
able to see otherwise
let's see if we find anything
else yes this is like crazy dynamic
memory
allocation that Pro like probably this
memory shouldn't be allocated in the
first place so probably this shouldn't
exist because there shouldn't be
anything to clean up it should just be a
loop over visited node at most that
would be called in uh in the free of the
whole
environment verify level
I mean this looks fine right but in
order to see if this would be fine what
I would have to do is I literally have
to paste the code for each of these
functions next to each other and see how
much is
redundant which is generally what I do
so this it's fine to have functions that
are written like this as long as you
know that you're not actually doing a
bunch of crazy redundant
stuff gen
level okay gen level is is the gross uh
probably one of the more gross functions
okay let's see if it's actually gross or
if it's just like or if it's totally
fine
constants minor style things in here
nothing
big delete this these two spaces and
then these two
spaces yeah I remember that one I got
the order easier to read right
yeah I I did scale times whatever um
variable times or constant times
variable this time but it's just the
spacing e
[Music]
okay so the only thing the only thing
here is that this one literally should
go this is this crazy thing you can you
could name sub elements of this to make
this these condition checks clear but
this stuff should just go in here cuz
you have a trivially uh you have a
trivially nested if statement
right uh I'm actually not confident if
that one is
Trivial on uh which one is
it uhhuh
this going
here well you have to check your ANS and
ores
obviously which is why this condition
would be probably factored out as one
and then you would leave and then it
would be pretty clear because it would
be four things yeah okay sorry I thought
you were looking at the one above
because I know the one above can't be
cleaned up further no no other this one
is this is fine uh this this one so I
would make this a variable condition
whatever this is supposed to to be yeah
yeah yeah the one below you're right
that that one can be turned into a
variable condition and then probably the
one below a variable condition well it's
the fact that you have this is a trivial
nesting right there's no code here yeah
so this is one if statement yeah no that
that one can be that one could be
compressed so only one of those I've
only found one of those this review
though and it was in a spot where you're
doing a bunch of stuff so
whatever level strand
yeah this is the thing I was talking
about on Discord where I had to split
out one for scon and one for one for the
C file
um it's fine if your code ends up like
this right but I would not suggest like
writing this and then filling in the
methods does that make
sense I guess what do you mean by
that are you familiar with top
design I mean I can conceptually work my
way through there via the vernacular but
this is just a way that programming is
often taught in schools uh and they tell
you like okay write something that looks
like that function right write something
that looks like that and then fill in
the
methods oh no I mean that's just how it
ended up being that's fine if that's how
it ends up being that's fine as long as
you're not doing that from the start
you're
good yeah no I'm not like writing the
architecture of like how it's like of
that of that Loop and then filling in
the function accordingly you should just
be writing the logic like top to bottom
and then like breaking stuff out into
functions as is needed yeah yeah yeah
that that's what I did because then I
had to go back and clean up various
places and be like oh this could have
been a smaller function here whatever
and the reason this is a bad idea is
because it creates redundant code
because like you don't actually know how
it should be broken up until you write
it and that's
fine we should make a colors. at some
point
Point yeah probably honestly I don't
even really use most of those colors I
don't think I know if I use any of the
color because the goal is going to
originally be the puffer but now it's a
the the the cion block
puffer all right now you're in render
land
enjoy okay why wish you could drag this
view you can't drag this view in GitHub
it's really annoying
here I'm going to do this and if it
covers the chat it covers the
chat you know what I can do is I can
keep the chat open on the other
window the chat's still pretty far away
from my screen so you can I can't it's
just that I like for me to see the chat
oh your version of chat okay we're good
I forget if we use this resolution
anywhere this is a little large for web
but
okay that was just to match
the the photo I mean it can be smaller
it really doesn't
matter I think I usually do uh 720p for
the bigger
Ms like 1280 by 720 I
think camera
Yep this thing
I forget if I had an F string oh
actually I think that um ra has a format
a string format functions I use oh it
yeah there's like a text format or
whatever okay so you make some
lights yeah I didn't know if I should
have broken out the lights into like a
light function but since I only did four
I figured I would just leave it
there well what would the light function
do it's literally just the same thing
except just say like create so all
you're doing is adding like a function
that has six freaking parameters or
seven freaking parameters right right
it's
fine there's already a function called
create light you don't need your own
create light like create create light
yeah it's fine
I don't know a lot of like programming
experien is also learning what things
should bother you and what things
shouldn't bother you
I recently decided to give up on trying
to turn python code to look like C um to
look more like C because I realized I'm
fighting the actual design of the
language I actually really liked how I
set up this animation config set up um
what is this thing this is I actually
don't recognize the syntax at all is
this an enum what is this it's like kind
of like an enum yeah static
const anim
config I don't what is this syntax here
this like oh that's just like an
instantial IED table of the struct
above of Anam kfig
we have the anom config struct and then
that just like creates a table of those
values already uh assigned this I don't
know why there's this bracket here huh
anom idle equals and so anom idle itself
is a uh what's it called is this an enom
yeah is an enum
yeah oh man that's weird I yeah the
thing you're doing doing is fine there
there's just that some weird C sytax but
whatever but it ends up working like
very cleanly because it makes it so that
all of the animations and like how they
get rendered and how they're processed
like what frame they need to start at
and where they transition to is all
handled in one place so if you ever need
to add animations it's super easy to
track um yeah that's fine where you put
things
yeah I think that the only difference in
what I had is because I didn't know this
intact or want to bother with it is I
did uh I did the same thing but then I
just set you know anom config of anim
idle equals this yeah separate it's
fine that's kind of
cool I bet you get really gross compiler
messages if you screw it up
though yeah that's why you just don't do
that
oh yeah just make the code correct very
good I really like the tvols quote of
like you know if you know if there were
no other reason for using C over C++
than to keep out terrible C++
programmers that would be good enough
reason that's
great e
so this is an actual animation file
right of the animations yeah those are
those are loaded in from the it's
actually all in the same glb as the
character that's actually really cool I
would really like to get something like
this with the puffer so we can just like
use the puffer for environments MH
imagine doing like boids like the like
the uh flocking type Sim but with just
tons of mini
puffers just swimming we have a swim
animation yeah so you just have to add
animations to um when NB format I I I
don't know if it's true of the other
form um you can just add all the
animations into it and it'll just be
able to figure it out we should do that
that'd be
cool update
position
uhhuh progress yep just have a lurp I
think I did it manually but same
thing is this just a different lurp or
something why this is separate oh that
yeah that lurp is just for uh the one
above or I don't know where you are
right
now the lurp was just for that specific
animation I believe okay I think it's
just for
hanging take camera
this stuff you could argue could all
just be inside of render but I split it
out now you actually are getting into
the Gil
rapper I mean RL this is like G was it
Ray Ray glsl or whatever this is like
basically identical to um open G code
right here it's really annoying I'll
tell you that
yeah cuz you have to do this and then
this otherwise you're
screwed other like malakin free if you
didn't get
warnings oh and there's no warnings at
all it you're your whole thing just
renders like [__] and you have no idea
why yep I think I spent like a full day
on just like making sure that the
animations were like rotating correctly
it was really annoying this type of
thing if you're going to do this this is
like an actually good argument for like
a with
right what's a with with like python
like so with uh with like push Matrix or
whatever and then when you exit it just
pops you don't know the WID oper
python
no maybe I do
I'm with wi oh they're saying like wi V
I was like what are you talking about
yeah no I know yeah yeah yeah so like
something like that
context Shader mode begin sh mode
C
render yeah there's like three edge
cases I had to handle and then the rest
is
cool okay um I've given you some small
things the only big thing is to not
break our setup file and then we can PR
this and we're going to make I'm going
to make a new Branch um I think I got to
get rid of the old Dev Branch just
deleted or
whatever and then we'll do something off
of
that okay so yeah let's talk about order
of operations here um so you're going to
make a new Dev branch and then I'm going
to try and so I'm going to take the 2.0
setup file right and then modify it to
have 5.5 and the r lights file that I
need y
and then try to not really change
anything beyond those two things and
then PR that into your new Dev
Branch
yep that is correct okay also uh it
looks like our sweeps match pretty much
exactly to before nice so this is what
we have this is what it gets us I would
like to see this portion of the frontier
filled in I don't know why it's not
filled it would be interesting okay so
second thing um do you want to go over
pong
sure I think that's a quick one yeah no
it's like very little okay so I'm going
to make the P do you want me to just go
ahead and just make the P or you me to
where it's at because I know we just say
we're going to do this and then Branch
you can you show uh send me the link
okay let me pull up the code for that
then give me one
second the one question I had on it was
do you with continuous because it's
being based off of normal distribution
and my actions for pong I said as
negative or based off of negative 1 to1
do you clip actions to negative 1 to1
after you receive from the the the the
network yeah so
um because that's what I did and it was
able to get comparable performance to
discreet so yeah you should do that but
um
that's one of the things we should
investigate because I did that in the
robotic stuff and that totally broke
everything so I clipped in the policy
but then if I clipped in the environment
it would break it which was
weird no no it was I think no I think I
clipped in the environment but if I
clipped in the policy it broke it that's
what it
was it's weird so we should experiment
with where action should actually be
clipped but yes that's fine for now
okay I just I linked it in the dev chat
of just the pong folder I only made like
uh I mean I guess you can just kind of
read it I mean that's not like you want
me send the diff or how do you want me
to do
this this
one yeah I mean that's just pong in on
my on the branch and I can just kind of
tell you the changes I made load actions
yes actions becomes
2D okay so this is something that I only
was able to get working if I turned
actions into 2D because of how the box
if you on in gymnas
when you change action space to a box
versus discreet it returns it into 2D
object because
apparently gymnasium is meant to be
handled as in box for like higher
dimensional space so it automatically
outputs it as 2D um can't you just
flatten it in the numie before you put
it to send it to actions that's what I
see I just did the reverse I just made
it um so for discreet what I do is I
just I just expanded it to 2D and then I
kept it 2D for
uh um yeah I think that we going in I
think we we handle stupid gymnasium
stuff close to gymnasium and uh we don't
let It screw with our RC and scon
code that'd be my preference because
there are a
couple instances I don't know if because
it was multi-agent but I think it was in
in Grid code as well I want to say it
was double dimensional actions or one of
them uming for that's because it's uh is
that from multi-agent on that
one it might
be I don't remember why I that it might
be multi- discreet I think it I think
it's because I originally made it multi-
discreete before I figured out how to
make it discreete so I just haven't
fixed it yet okay so on this one do you
want me to keep it 2D or do you want me
to do 1D and then flatten it after it
and flatten would be better because it's
the same thing either way right it's
like either I do 2D and I increase the
dimension one or I don't think we should
have redundant array dimensions and
C so I just need to then added I just
need to cut or flatten the dimension on
a okay that's fine okay and then
continuous equals
true uh it should be false by
default oh okay that was just for
testing yeah okay so make the default
false yeah this
one yep it's
good
continuous that's that's what I
did wait self. actions
equals you have to that's going to
replace the
buffer oh wait hold on yeah the
buffer no but you always do that and in
all the environments you set actions to
actions
where in every of the Python files you
do self do actions equals
actions and there it's in every single
ocean environment
where in Step self. actions equals
actions I pop no I there's a Cole in
here you just copy actions no mine has a
colon too why did I not see a
colon am I
blind where did your P where did your
coach just
go how did I just lose your freaking
code yeah mine has actions and then it
Clips it and then the other one reshapes
it unless are you looking at a different
branch right
here oh wait self.
equals oh okay
wait wait where are you are you looking
at this is right after superet buff is
this not your
code what do you I just looked at your
latest commit
diff if not
continueous so these are
correct I I don't know where you're
seeing that on
mine
okay because
continuous right
here because when I go into that branch
and I go to pong dopie 41 and you're in
you're in step right no in a nit you're
in a
knit and myit and you're you're saying
41 if St that actually 42 4
142 long continuous Branch okay why did
I why did I do
this so actually I don't think it's
wrong because you did it no because this
is this this is happening as you're
passing it into M this before M so it's
fine because you do it before so the
thing that's a little tricky here is
that you have to be a little careful
with stuff like this because you do self
equal self actions fine but I don't know
if this copies in fact if it changes the
data type it probably does
copy so actually hold on yeah this can
break this will
break so because buff here can get
passed in
right is isn't buff supposed to be pass
in cuz self do actions doesn't that set
in super in it yes this gets set well
this can get set from vectorization
because this gives you a slice of
data so I think this can break it
because
here uh this you pass it you pass this
in and then this if this copies it'll
break
right I'm confused what the solution
would be then because
well you shouldn't need why do you need
says to 32 what's the what's the data
type actions it's
float they're continuous this is
redundant oh if not continuous no
because if if it's coming from the
discret
space whenever you're discreet you have
to change it to a
float to pass it through syon otherwise
syon gets angry
that was my I think I think it's I think
it's fine and the reason that it's fine
is that this buffer specifically uh we
pass actions anyways here so then you
said it yes this is actually fine that's
tricky we got to be careful with this
stuff I might find a better way of doing
this in the future but I think that
you're actually fine here and the reason
is
that self actions you're going to
overwrite it so vectorization is no
longer going to have access to this
buffer but it will still have it will
still pass the actions here and they get
set here so it's
fine okay
good and that's it was there any that
was the only change was like a few lines
the scon was changed but I mean I think
it was just a couple lines I mean it was
just like mostly just changing it to
float like I don't think I actually
really changed anything material
yeah okay cool the whole thing is like
27 line changes or something like that
like it's I I think I missed something
then because I didn't review 27 lines
probably this
one yes yeah cuz there's two yeah yeah I
mean window and then you added this
continuous did you do this with the
wheel yes I
did oh dude don't that what you don't
you don't like the wheel as how are you
are going to continue it I guess you
know I guess actually that's kind of
clever I think we leave the discret
build up on the website because that's
going to confuse the hell out of people
but uh fine we'll leave that's actually
kind of clever yeah get wheel move
that's actually that's actually really
clever okay fine that's really
clever I I will not receive this hate
for this that's actually I wouldn't have
thought of that I was just like wait
what
oh okay you get credit for that that's
that's actually very
clever and H yeah this is fine well
good I thought I hads for this like up
down what but it's
fine uh maybe I didn't it was false oh I
don't know where it was true by default
I think you might have changed this to a
new PR I changed it in the new PR
because I I just forgot to switch it
back to false yep so fix it back make
sure you don't break pal because we're
using that end for lots and lots of
testing and um other than that you can
PR that and we'll have two different
things I will make a new Dev Branch for
that as well and yeah this whole sweep
just ran fine as well nice and quick you
can see so as part of the
experimentation um do you want me to run
experiments on pong contain continuous
using the new thing or are you going to
do oh you can totally do that that'
probably be a perfectly good thing
because I'll merge it into devs you can
play with it um so I can see if there's
like better hyper parameters on
continuous I'm not guaranteeing this
algorithm is perfect yet but uh
hopefully it's good enough to play with
I don't know I think I heard a guarantee
in there
somewhere it should be good enough to
play with um yeah cuz like you get these
this is what we got out of I literally I
ran this whole 200 experiment weep while
we were talking yeah so you can see
here's the cost of all the
experiments and uh here's the parito
frontier that was
uncovered and then you can actually look
and see like stable hyper parameter
regions here's entropy Peaks around
01 here's gradient Norm you can see
gradient Norm of like 1.5 is pretty good
so is it pretty easy to understand how
to run these sweeps um using Neptune cuz
like you know when I was doing carbs
it's kind of like a whole learning
experience to do it and uh it's much
easier than ever before okay uh the only
thing is that all of that complexity now
is in the config
files okay all the
specifications you see how you specify a
distribution for each
parameter uh yes okay min mean Max and
scale and then there's also Auto
scale and then you also have to specify
a few other things up top what does Auto
scale
do uh it does some math View and tries
to figure out a good scale all right
fair enough I've only tried it on total
time steps so far but ideally the hope
is that we're going to get this to work
on everything so uh you're yeah your
total like you're going to have Auto
scale on everything and uh it's just
going to be like did you did you
automatically figure out batch size [__]
so that it's not like going to go to
like a random batch size between things
and okay yep that's the power to yeah
that that was an that was a little bit
of an annoying thing at one point um but
no saying like the ratios change the
yeah no like the batch to Min batch
ratio so it guarantees that you're not
doing like I just set the max of this to
be uh 32k and then the Min of this is
32k okay okay so that just does it for
you
no but I'm saying like ratios right so
you know how we talked about like there
being like a good mini batch to batch
ratio of being like one quarter or like
worst case like
1/8 um yeah it just gets pet like right
now it just it does everything based on
on wall clock versus cost so okay so
it'll probably figure out over time like
it's just it's a smarter
algorithm okay and also it doesn't it's
no longer allowed to sample things like
utterly crazy
um so for instance this mini batch size
that starts off at 8192 and then this
size it starts off at 32k it cannot
immediately sample 260 and then what 10
24 it can't just like sample the high
end and the low end
immediately it's like this probabilistic
thing that starts at the mean and
expands over time
okay it's a cool algorithm I will show
you it when it's almost done I will show
you it soon in fact there's even a uh
there's even like a very strong Baseline
in here which should be a very strong
Baseline perito
genetic so this is how much code it
takes for a parenetic
Al obviously there's some additional
functions in here and there are a whole
bunch of versions of it as
well but this thing literally it just it
starts off by sampling the mean point
and then it builds a parito frontier
around that mean point so it runs like a
genetic algorithm a very basic genetic
search and uh it like discovers new
parito points and then it searches
outward from the whole set of existing
Paro points oh that's pretty sick yeah
and then there's this bias that actually
makes it
work I just I just went ahead and linked
on on the disc the the pong continuous
run if you want to take a peek at
that it was a little less uh step
efficient but I don't know fine solved
in it's solved in 45
seconds and this is not optimal right
most
likely what do you mean like in terms of
like the
parameters yeah I mean this has not been
this is just whatever the previous
discreet parameters was on the config
file
so that's fine so we'll run a sweep I
think we should be able to get it to 30
seconds or below mhm just about what we
get with uh currently it's like solved
in 30 yeah so the one is currently
solved in 20 million steps and in 30
seconds oh okay oh
yeah so we should be able to match
time so it may just be a parameter thing
most likely I mean this thing came up
with some pretty crazy
parameters did the did the I I hadn't
ended up actually reading that paper
from the guy that did the the kale or
whatever um did it did he say that there
was different parameters that he found
to be useful uh they said that they
found continuous to be somewhat harder
but they didn't run a full parameter
sweep ah okay because Atari was so hard
and so expensive to
run okay well now we can do that in like
a day oh we can do that in an
hour this is a very I mean this is a
pretty solid sweep like let's see system
time 209 to 357 okay so two
hours still pretty good for 200
experiments yeah yeah yeah 200
experiments is great it's also the so
there is it does take a couple seconds
per sample like three seconds or so I
think per sample to generate the hyper
prams with a new me yeah um but it used
to take 12 in the original carbs
implementation so I made that faster as
well nice it has it's training it's
training a every single time it
recommends a new data point it is
training two different gum
processes yeah this is going to be
really cool I want to see how this can
be applied into the
other I I mean this is like yeah this is
my top thing right now in RL is just
make this consistent and stable um My
Hope Is We we can throw this on all of
the ends that we have we fix any little
bugs with the algorithm in the process
of doing that right just alternative to
carbs yes this is all this is the new
algorithm I've been
developing um
yeah and if we can make this like stable
and consistent then we're going to be
set up perfectly for all sorts of
additional research and frankly this is
one of the big missing pieces right now
in
RL so this could be I mean this could be
huge for the field in
general and so conceptually on what I
did with pong like that's all pretty
sound so there's no reason why I can't
just copy that type of process for buff
for breakout yep same exact besides the
flatten thing to make it 1D actions or
whatever yeah and note that I removed
the fire action and breakout to prevent
it from infinitely
looping is that in the latest version
yep so literally it's just left it's
just left and right that's those are the
only is there a do nothing action still
no I removed that so that it could not
infinitely
Loop it can just learn to do nothing for
that's what happened like when you
really start running an algorithm that
just discovers everything it just
discovered that and then it's like oh
okay you run your sweep and then 20
experiments in it just infinitely
Loops okay so yeah so just two yeah
that's easy stuff
yeah um h
I guess continuous is kind of less
complicated than I thought it would be
yeah I this is why I said this is a
quick project for somebody to
do for I know you said that but like I
mean I just thought it'd be harder I
don't know no I said it's easy for the
ocean environment is multi-agent if I
want agents that can become in active
inactive what would be a good Baseline
M that can become active or inactive
I don't know what that means
um does he mean like one agent versus 10
like I think he means that like variable
number of agents at any given time
um you can do that there's a masking
feature in puffer lib so there is a
masking feature in puffer lib that lets
you do that uh variable number of Agents
is the source of all pain and suffering
in multi of learning just going to tell
you right now so you can do it puffer Li
has a thing that allows you to hack it
and make it work pretty cleanly but this
is the source of all pain and
suffering so much so that we removed
this from neural MMO 3 when I did neural
mm3 like we like we had variable in 20 I
removed it in 30 because I didn't want
to deal with it and because it made
everything faster and easier and you
don't lose any
complexity raining it is a pain nope
it's that you have to mask and fil the
observations at every step so you're
only getting the on from live agents
which again we've implemented it it
works in puffer Li but uh if you're
going to have here let's say if you're
going to do this make sure that you
always have at least half the agents
alive at any given time because
otherwise you just lose a ton of
perf that's my
suggestion so however many the max
number of agent make sure at least half
of them are alive at any given time do I
do that in rware because I think I I I
think you can have any number of in
agents in it and yeah but not variable
like over the course of an
episode it's like agents can die It's
usually the thing that yeah agents can
spawn or die this is the source of all
pain and suffering do not do pain and
suffer all agents are always alive in
our whereare so that's not a
problem oh shoot I just I just popped in
here because I real got some stream and
I realized I do this impulse Wars I
didn't even think about the implications
of like some Asians dying or
whatever uh yes pain and suffering um
it's
implemented also we're on stream but uh
yeah
there's yeah there's the masking thing
will let you deal with that I suggest
you use
it is that or where where did you have
that masking the masking is not
environment specific you just use it on
anything but like you have to return a
mask parameter like uh there's a mask
option in vectorization you can just set
the mask as part of the buffer and it
just tells you which agents are alive
and then clean puffer ale will only
train on data from Agents that are
alive oh see I thought because
truncation and uh terminals are like a
buffer per agent I thought if I said
okay one agent dies set the terminal for
that agent only to be one then that
would basically do that It's tricky
because historically I think that some
environments have set terminal
truncation once when an agent dies and
then they don't continue to set it and
then other environments have um like
well
[__] no you can't do that because if you
just set the terminal or the truncation
it's like the agent could respawn or the
end could reset so you need a Mas on top
of it it's annoying as
hell okay I mean okay so if what I'm
understanding is correct it doesn't
sound that bad so basically well the per
floss um because yeah but wait you're
using in your environment don't you have
when do you have a variable number of
Ages they die in the thing resets
doesn't it well so if you have two
agents yeah but if you have more than
two say if you had like say three or
four drones like players total but then
you had more than one agent yeah you
could have one agent dead and one alive
so let's say that you wanted to do like
a really big arena version of your of
your environment right mhm I would just
respawn SP dead agents instantly
somewhere else on the map and uh you
know just score a point against them or
something I
mean how I'm doing it right now though
it's just kind of like illumination so
when you die you die for the round and
if I was to implement that correctly
that would mean you can do that like
puffer lip will support it it's just
that like if you're looking for a spot
to get free perf on more like many agent
environments you can't for why the perf
is not as high then I would do it the
way I'm suggesting because it gives you
dense data for
training how much per floss can I expect
to get with masking and
stuff well the thing is that if half of
your agents are alive right then you're
running the for pass on half the number
of agents and then you have to go get
another environment staff to make up for
the amount of data I see yeah makes
sense so it's like it's not terrible if
most of your agents are usually alive
but the thing that happens in
elimination style games is usually
there's like a really long 1 V one at
the end so your average data ends up
being like 10% of the data uh This Is
What GPU Drive is dealing with right now
which is why we're probably going to
have to rewrite it gotcha I see so this
this kills RL projects like
completely this is something that I
dealt with for years with neural MMO as
well in neural MMO one and two wait why
would GP Drive be affected because the
cars never die yes they do you don't you
just reload a scene if they crash or if
they achieve their goal they're removed
oh
yes so the part you struggled with yours
with was just handling all the edge
cases or was was masking with sufficient
performance or what was the struggle
well I mean the thing is now puffer Li
handles is better than any other Library
so it's kind of solved but uh you still
like at the end of the day you're still
going to get a performance loss based on
the density of data that you've missed
out on
I
see and yeah I it was already but I
didn't hear anything clear so like uh
I've I've kind of seen masks in the code
but yeah like is there anywhere I can
look that they're actually being used as
like a
reference old neural mmo2 code maybe but
I mean you literally just set the masks
it's like it's just masks is just an
array and you just set it uh you just
set any agents that are dead to false
and that's it oh okay okay that's
literally that's a predetermined
variable like observations the
buffer okay and so yeah just to make
sure I'm perfectly okay so if you want
to do illumination style you have to
have the masks like at make sure M can
see that because right now I don't have
them seeing that like pass it in and
then I I just set it to be false or zero
whatever it depends like if your M's
reset you just you can set ter like
whenever the terminals are true you just
you set all those masks for false and
then whenever you reset the environment
you reset it so yeah you might have to
pass it to scyon you probably don't have
to pass it to
C wait I don't have to pass it to C well
you get Terminals and syon right yeah
and then you do like you do the per end
recepts in syon as well right like you
check if an end oh you probably don't do
that actually yeah no I I reset in the C
yeah enjoy you have to pass it to C
enjoy but no big deal no could you use
same masks for actions what could you
use that same masks like uh variable
that is a part of the buffer to also do
action masking because no because action
masking has to match the dimension of
the action
space which again I could Implement
action masking just the exact way that
you're saying it's just uh you know it's
just one more thing to add to the vector
buffer
API not terrible I could do it
it's also it's not that bad at all for
Native as well it's a bit easier for
Native I think we're also going to see
when uh we eventually upgrade python
versions when threading becomes
available that might simplify things a
little bit we'll see oh yeah when free
threading is yeah like 14 maybe we'll
see it'll be a while but uh actually I
think that the way that we implemented
almost everything is faster the only
thing that will be faster with threads
is going to be uh we get to kill all
pipes so all remaining pipes we get to
kill and we get to kill all of our like
piped seop
[__] yeah I mean make the code a lot
simpler too right not tremendously we
still have to do all the shared memory
buffer stuff it's uh just like the pipe
semaphor Shenanigans it's like a few
annoying Liv
yeah okay um all right so I'll I'll try
and do that really now quick I think so
just yeah set the MK to be zero when an
agent dies but I'm not resetting the
episode and then I only set terminal
trunk I want to set the episode or I
want to reset the episode
correct uh you only I think I believe so
I don't know terminal trunk doesn't
matter as much as making sure you get
the masks right because it will get
masks out anyways as long as you're
setting that but yeah what I mean is
like before like I said I was setting
like a terminal to be true if an agent
died and there was like another one left
but I shouldn't do that I should just
set them all when like the round's over
that's
it's set per agent
yeah yeah you should set you should set
those values per agent not per
end okay so okay to basically the only
thing I do is add M matching logic which
would be super simple yep okay perfect
okay thanks how's uh how's that project
going because it looks like we're
merging in
Spencer's puzzle
environment oh good um and continuous
pong as well
oh oh yeah I ended up doing that I don't
know if you were making progress on that
Captain uh I kind of had a working thing
and then I got sidetracked on something
else so no yeah that's if you have time
that's good um I mean it was it was
pretty easy anyway like I kind of got it
and then I think it was like oh I got
some compilation errors in the C file
but I think like that didn't matter
because like the puffer net stuff
doesn't work with continuous yet but um
yeah anyway that's good no big deal um
oh yeah Spencer that's going to be a I
forgot about that there is there's a
multi- discreet sample there is not a
continuous
sample then how is it getting how is it
working I did you run the
network yeah well you're probably
running the old Network you didn't load
in the new network and see did
you what do you mean by load in the new
network well you probably you tested the
human play thing you probably didn't
load in a continuous version in C right
oh in C yeah no definitely didn't well
that the thing is we don't if you'd
asked me Captain as well I would have
said we don't really need that anyways
because the demo online like we don't
need to have two versions of pong and
have like oh it's continuous or discreet
right fair so it's
fine that makes sense yeah that's
fine oh it does need to be playable with
the continuous phas for testing but
Spencer did that he he used the mouse
wheel which at first I thought was Dumb
and then I thought actually that's very
clever H Mouse wheel is little that's
kind of fun yeah that actually I
wouldn't have thought of that that's
interesting yeah
H yeah that makes sense though
yeah um yeah as far as impulse Wars
going uh like I said I think pretty good
I think a little bit later this week I
might try
and start like the I don't know the
puffer stuff like moving it over to
puffer to get ready for PR um I I had uh
or I was with some family this weekend
and I was showing my uh younger
brother-in-law like the game and we were
playing it and stuff so that was kind of
good to get some feedback but um yeah I
fixed some controller work so like it I
don't know if anyone's going to actually
be doing this online but if you have
like multiple controllers like it should
just work like no matter how many agents
or whatever combination of stuff you
have that's cool um yeah just plug in a
controller huh I don't think I own a
controller at the moment I probably
should yeah I mean ra the thing is like
Rao I in my experience is kind of weird
with controllers like it says it
supports like whatever controller and it
should support like Xbox PlayStation
whatever I've only I mostly Dev with a
switch Pro Controller because that's
just what I have I have a switch and
I've tried it with some friends Xbox
controllers but it's like very Hit or
Miss if it works I think it's a
combination of like Raab and Os issue
yeah so tricky yeah but which is very
surprising on the web build yeah I'll
have to do that once I get that working
but very surprising to me my switch Pro
Controller is like pretty consistent
because that usually is like not
supported very well but yeah by that but
yeah it works great and it's they're
good controllers um the one small thing
I do want to add before I starting this
is like I'm adding I really want to see
like what happens when I train
teams um and also I should be able to do
multi- agent if they're on the same team
because that's like what we have a lot
of like Cooperative multi-agent M right
do the crazy stuff only happens with
competitive because you need
ELO yeah exactly so I do want to do that
eventually but for now I think I'll
table that for later I think for now I
might just
add a flag like enable team or not and
then yeah like just do a training
session overnight of like two agents
versus two scripted Bots and see how
that goes very good so your curriculum
thing seemingly worked with the the like
one billion on basic opponent and then
you just uploaded the weights and then
did
the against the scripted bot yeah it's
it's night and day and I mean when you
think about it really makes sense
because the way I program my scripted
bot um it essentially
when it starts you know like you start
with the basic weapon so its main thing
is like it goes and gets like a weapon
the closest one and then as soon as it
has like a just a weapon it will hunt
down like the closest drone and just you
know just keep shooting at it until he
need to get another weapon so it's very
aggressive and you know if you have a
fresh policy a fresh model that
literally knows nothing it's I imagine
what's happening is it's pretty tough
for it to learn how the game works when
there's an aggressive opponent just like
killing just not getting any reward it's
the same thing like you're not you're
not going to learn how to play league or
Dota or any game if you're playing
against a GM you're just G to get
crushed yeah
exactly which this might as well the
skill Gap is pretty similar because it
literally knows nothing about anything
the start and this crypted BX just
destroying it so yeah like I've been
training it's probably Overkill but I've
been training for like a billion steps
against a Sitting Duck and that gets it
around like 80% win rate um and then
I'll train for like I don't know five or
so billion steps against the scripted
Bots and it does pretty well so I'm
curious about your transition point
right so like you you get it to like
whatever 80% or so on on the um on the
on the Sitting Duck and then the second
you transfer over does your like I don't
know I don't know how your main metric
is like win rate or whatever survival
rate or opponent's killed or whoever you
men rate yeah win rate does it just tank
immediately so like how how does that
actually end up learning from there let
me see let me pull up a a graph I'm
pretty sure it tanks like the first or
two like it recovers in like less than a
dozen Epoch I think it's like almost
immed it dips like the first one or two
like training epochs because it's like
totally new but it almost instantly
bounces back it's kind of amazing that's
really shocking I would have thought it
would be like just I don't know a lot of
failure but and then eventually figuring
out like oh I gotta run
away here
I oh actually yeah it's like yeah let me
post this in the
twitch I'll post the run so you can well
we're in Discord I'll post it in Discord
I'll post it in uh development
development okay yeah because I was
trying to read some other papers on the
subject a little bit and like it seems
like it's not very clear like what is
like the best way to like trans
transition across like I guess you call
like an an intermediate checkpoint on
learning
yeah uh yeah I don't know I just tried
this and it worked well so I haven't
really experimented too much
yeah um so drone zero like the basically
on the graph the blue one should be like
the agent the RL agent and so you can if
you zoom in like super close in the
beginning you can see the win rate like
that I mean this doesn't looks like it's
not even affected by it at all I yeah
basically it's not affected which is
kind of crazy that is wild
yeah
huh I guess I just looked out like my m
is just kind of well suited for this
basic curriculum learning I
guess yeah this isn't like research dri
or anything this is just kind of like
huh I wonder if this works and I did
then I just went with it yeah I mean why
not right
yeah I mean have you tried just training
on like the easy levels and then just I
don't know after it kind of seems a
plateau um trying to just train at hard
levels no I haven't I haven't done that
thing that you you showed me the other
day how to do uh okay I haven't tried
that yet I was trying to get the pr
ready in gotta yeah that makes sense and
then I was gonna mess with that kind of
stuff
afterwards I I have a hypothesis I
haven't really test well no think I have
tested actually um I mean yeah so like I
think if you train for too long on the
easy stuff it'd probably be harder for
it to learn or it take longer for it to
learn the harder stuff because it's just
kind of more like set and it's kind of
like you know being trained like
optimized for the easy stuff but if you
kind of catch it like earlier on in
training I think when it's like doing
pretty good but not perfect it might be
more malleable but that's just kind of
like at hypothesis that's plasticity
there's an area of that uh cheapest
quickest look at that would be look at
the entropy
curve not a great not a great method but
it'll tell you
something for in the curve it going down
a
lot let me
see here I'll post this I'm trying to
think if I
if action this did I mess with your
triple Triad
thing uh I haven't touched it in a long
time so I don't know which of these
things is
correct I
mean it's probably correct on
2 I would guess the 20 I mean put this
way I have not even touched it since I
think it
still has like still has C pointers yeah
so
yeah it's probably fine whatever your
change is
there plus 2,00 minus
1,000
nice make sure that all the files are
changed are reasonable
oh
yeah Captain do you think you're going
to keep on uh like messing with the
impulse Wars for a while or do you have
any thoughts on like what your next
project is are you just going to want to
do a whole bunch of uh like research on
impulse
further uh I don't know I mean I I I
would like to get into puffer
so it could yeah we can just play in the
web and all that stuff but um yeah I
don't know I I do think I want to do a
little bit more with it but um I don't
know yeah this is a chunky PR
holy the tower climb
one no the the uh hyper
stuff oh oh it's ready to PR it's in Dev
now oh nice yeah so what we're doing is
we're going to add he's making a new Dev
and then I'm pring into the new
Dev which did you call it anything else
or do you just rewrite the existing Dev
I think I just have new Dev uh if this
is working we'll see okay is there a
reason we can't keep the same Dev Branch
between like releases because that just
make it kind of easier like it is it's
named Dev oh perfect okay I I just had
to delete the old one because it was
like I didn't want to have to sync that
oh oh okay I see yeah makes
sense that's literally it yeah so we're
gonna add the the pawn continuous Tower
climb into the new Dev because he wants
because I've made some changes on the
setup file that could nuke things so he
wanted me to fix that
um cool uh oh
conflicting yeah at some point I would
like to do an end with ELO and kind of
get some competitive stuff going but I
don't know we'll
see you me sounds like you're gonna also
probably try and work on that at some
point yeah I don't I was planning on
doing it in the near like the near
future but now I feel like I it's
probably best for me to like take a
break and do something else but if we
did want to do ELO research we do have a
lot of like competitive EVS we could use
like go or triple Triad or oh yeah ton
we've never actually done it
that's but it's a pain it should be less
of a pain now though yeah I mean I
literally had like a Connect Four
support project with an early branch of
puffer with uh one of the collaborators
who's actually now doing curriculum
learning on puffer for us which is
nice yeah aon's around doing curriculum
learning with Puffer
so wait is there some like Connect 4
unmerged M floating around
somewhere uh there is but ours is now
better the one SP roads better that's
right oh I forgot I forgot we have a
Connect 4 ocean already yeah that' be a
good there's I mean technically you
could bind all the ends from open Spiel
but then you have to do open
Spiel I know maybe it's worth doing I
looked at their code it's not horrible
but it could be better yeah
their RL code sucks though their M
codee's fine kind
of so I I guess pong would be like the
simplest possible competitive M right
you just modify it so it works because I
think I looked at the code it only it's
hard Cod to work with one agent only
right yeah we can do competitive pal
perfectly easy yeah and then that'd be
like the simplest that I can think of
possible like M to start doing like uh
only annoying thing about that is it'll
get to the point very quickly where
neither scores any
points yeah fixed game length is kind of
nice for that like Connect Four is kind
of good for that yeah maybe Connect Four
would be our ELO Baseline then why would
it start to figure out that that's the
best strategy they'll just they'll
volley it with each other and not never
neither of will ever drop a point
ah yeah like you ever play a hockey with
someone pretty decent it's just it
becomes like a long it can become a long
game of like just waiting for to mess up
you know sure sure
sure versus just like you know you just
when someone's like really bad you just
like score pretty easily or you're
really bad you just get scored on like a
lot right but if you're both good it's
yeah almost kind of stal meting yeah man
I haven't seen an air hockey table in
Forever that's funny yeah I don't know
why that came to me but
yeah I haven't played one either for a
long time freaking slam the things and
pop it out of the just go fly at you
yeah that's always fun to
do uh I'm trying to think what I messed
up
here I'm
screw I don't know if this was a good
merge so will will demo doy have the new
Neptune stuff in it over
whatever or do you have a separate file
for all of that
stuff uh no it's in demo but hang on I
think I broke
something oh I think it just can't be in
the main file
so this might be a dumb question but if
I only have two agents in impulse War so
like if one dies the the episode
immediately resets should I
it does it matter if I set the masks or
not and and I set the masks the same
setep that I set terminals or
truncations because I'm just wondering
like I could you know add a branch it
doesn't matter if you set if if you're
going to immediately reset it you don't
have to mess with mask at all yeah but
I'm just wondering if I should you know
I want to have the logic there when I do
have more than yeah yeah so I'm just
wondering if it be like a if it affect
like training performance if I do set it
and I don't really need to or not
um I think technically you might miss
one OBS but it shouldn't it shouldn't
matter there's like this really
obnoxious quk that makes it hard to
handle trajectory bounds in uh in all
these various
libraries okay this seems to be
running so I think I just fix this one
little bug and then we have this demo
file
runnable with uh three new
algorithms BR new sweeping
algorithms yeah I'll show you real quick
me push
this I mean there might still be some
bugs around here right like from the
merge it was a pretty big merge but
um so in puffer Li
sweep this whole file is 538 lines but
some of this is devoted to Old carbs so
476 lines this is pretty short file uh
it has space definitions so you can
define a parameter space there are lots
of different types of these they have a
normalized function they have an
unnormalized function so when you give
it a parameter of a certain type it
knows how to convert this into a
normalized space which is better for uh
for hyper parameter
SS we have a few different spaces
there's logit there's log there's power
of two and there's linear four spaces at
the moment uh there is a simple way to
construct one of these configs based on
a uh like a sweep config which is just a
any file so it'll build it for
you there is a hyper parameters thing
that that will take that sweep config uh
get all of the minimum and maximum
bounds the search centers and have a
sampling functions associated with
that so there's a hyperparameter manager
that like just does all that for you
there's a function to see which points
are burito optimal and then there are
three different methods there is a
random search method which is better
than most random search methods that
you'll find because it uses the
normalized spaces from the hyper
parameters uh this is huge step up from
most random
methods there is Paro genetic which is a
genetic algorithm that attempts to
discover Paro optimal points uh as well
as to slowly push out and cover the
whole uh the whole cost region the whole
like cost
curve and then there is protein which is
the working name of the new
algorithm uh this thing here let's see
if we can get the whole code so if you
it first does some random samples and
then there's a resample method to
resample Paro points but for the most
part this is the whole code right here
pretty much uh if we go down and skip
the Preamble where it's just normalizing
the data I think we'll get all the code
really in graph missing maybe a few
lines but I think it's like 60-ish lines
of code whatever fits on a screen a
little bit more it's got a bunch of
space transforms it's got a couple
different gussian processes uh and then
it has a scoring function function which
is down here the scoring function
attempts to it attempts to impr improve
over the nearest Paro point and it
attempts to cover the cost curve and
it's very similar to the Paro the pero
genetic algorithm except instead of
randomly guessing which direction to
improve it uses gussian processes and
this makes it dramatically dramatically
better and that is it that is the code
in this file so this whole file that
contains everything is less than a fifth
of the length of the original
carbs
um and I think it performs way better we
have to run final
tests and uh it's of a lot easier to
understand as well so this is the new
algorithm nice yeah that is so much
easier to
read smaller this took a while this was
some hard work yeah no I saw you
streaming on it a lot that's cool man
yeah and so now we have our test from
this this is pong with the new algorithm
here and here's total time steps we have
all these nice stats here's the cost of
each experiment and here is the Paro
front that's been
discovered it's got an interesting shape
to
it you know there's like there's a
minimum cost over which like as soon as
you apply a little bit more compute you
get a huge amount of improvement it's
kind of interesting
and then you get all sorts of different
parameters Associated and there's some
nice tricks with this as
well now for this thing to work
optimally you do need to know the
minimum and maximum score of your
environment that's the one thing that
you do need at the moment
yeah okay that makes
sense and that's that's purely for us to
we use that to normalize the scores that
you give us uh and put them into a space
that makes it easier for us to analyze
which parameters are likely to be better
than
others and and score is just like the uh
the objective or whatever right whatever
the thing is that you're trying to
optimize the parts yeah yeah that makes
sense yeah well at least for impulse
Wars it won't be hard cool so what would
you do for something like rware where
the objective is the shortest time to
complete the objective like zero is
better zero is the best and then what
like like infinity or something like I I
haven't actually tested it for this but
there is an optimized Direction
parameter so it could be like zero
to uh yeah I guess it would be infinity
and that might break it so we might have
to cap it or something clip it but uh
sure
yeah I mean if you just did Max in or
Max float like it also probably work
it's there's a log space on this thing
so you actually use those values to
transform scores into a log
space so yeah the thing that this solves
this solves there's a really good reason
for this so the thing that this solves
is uh for most environments you care
more about improvements at the upper end
than at the lower end especially if
something like score right where the max
score is going to be one but then like
0.9 versus 0.99 is a huge difference
versus
0999 because that's the completion rate
so it actually exponentially spaces your
rewards there and I like did some work
to find some like really nice settings
that like there are a whole bunch of
Transformations like this right it's
very very dependent on data
normalization basically if you get any
of these transforms wrong the whole
thing breaks but if you get everything
right you get like god tier hyper pram
sweeps
hm and when you said cost earlier are
you referring anything to that as just
like GP time or cost time and seconds to
run the experiment okay you could set it
but the cool thing about it is you could
just set that to like steps or something
and then you will get the most ample
fici
algorithm we don't do that though
because sample efficiency is
dumb yeah I doesn't who cares about
sample efficiency oh okay if if you're
doing like a in our case yeah who cares
about sample you know what I would do if
you have a slow environment I would just
like slow the environment I would just
simulate the environment being slower
right and I'd include that in the
cost so i' still use as cost but I would
add the I would add the extra time for
the sample set
right oh okay hm
like let's say that I have like a fast
simulator and I'm trying to make
something that'll work on a slow
simulator I would just take the cost and
I would just add like slow simulator
speed times number of samples minus fast
simulators be times number of samples or
whatever it'd be
better so this thing is now in depth um
that the grid
works but this seems like this is
good I'm sure they're going to be things
that I have to fix but this is some good
progress
um yeah so for Spencer uh fix minor
things with pong fix setup script for
your en we will PR both of those to Dev
we'll just merge those we will play
around with those you can start running
sweeps on these as well you can try out
the three new algorithms
um to give you an idea I think I didn't
this is not a perfectly fair
comparison so this is random search okay
this is Paro
genetic and then this one I didn't
include the bad points in here I only
include the Pito curve but uh this is
the Paro curve of the new algorithm it's
going to have some points down here
below as well but not very many
and you can see the cost here it only
gets to like 15 this discovers the whole
front the same number of
experiments so what's that line is that
just like the calculated best fit or
something M this line is cumulative cost
so this line tells you how much of your
experiment budget you spend on each
level of
cost um so Random it's always going to
be linear
is and here this one this one seems stay
it
spends a little bit more compute at the
lower
end and then this one is fairly linear
sometimes it curves a little bit to
spending more comput at the top
end I also I also had to tweak this
algorithm heavily to get this line to be
the right
shape so I'm assuming the genetic
algorithm is just there to kind of test
against protein or whatever well it's a
good Baseline so we have random as a
baseline this is a stronger random
Baseline than most random
implementations and then this is also a
baseline this one's nice though because
it runs
instantly um this one takes like three
seconds per sample H because it has to
fit models so this is this is intended
to be a strong random algorithm so this
is should be a strong Baseline for an
algorithm that does not fit a model
and this one's actually pretty easy to
understand and the cool thing is that
this one is basically this algorithm but
without the model so this is this
algorithm except instead of trying to
predict which sample is going to be best
at any time step uh it only knows how to
predict
randomly so what this thing does is it
starts off say around here or whatever
just using the mean of all the parameter
shapes and then like randomly searches
around this one for another point and it
keeps doing that until it finds another
Peri of optimal point and then it
samples from both of those points it'll
pick one of them and then expand out
from there and then it keeps doing that
filling in the Paro front and it uses
each Paro spot as a new cir Center
option and then there's also a bias term
that increases the uh the speed with
which it covers outward to the the cost
Frontier which is basically the same
exact thing that I do for uh for the
full algorithm except that I have two
different models that are used to
improve those predictions so it's pretty
cool yeah it is
cool took a lot of
work well I'm very excited to try it out
see if I can get some especially because
the last time I did a sweep it was just
I think against training against a uh
Sitting Duck so I'm sure I could get
better hyper parameters on oh yeah I was
actually gonna ask you about that
though the thing is that until we test
this on a bunch of environments and make
sure it's good and
stable it's really hard to know if your
problem is just hyper parameters because
think about it in RL Right Now the
default is there is no algorithm that
tells you uh that tells you here are you
the good hyper parameters right there's
just no good hyperparameter tuning
algorithm that you can just run to find
the hyper parameters that you need right
so if that is true then we can rule out
hyper parameters as a problem or we can
find the good hyper parameters for any
specific
problem so this just massively
accelerates research by giving you
confidence over this whole big class of
errors that is the whole
yeah I was going to ask you when I do
run another Suite
because like I said I have really good
success um doing this kind of like you
know curriculum training I guess or
learning whatever I'm not sure how to do
that sweeps though because ideally
sweeps well no just in general because I
as I'm I don't know just allocate the
first half of steps to train against the
Sitting Duck and then you know hack the
trainer file to then load in the new one
yeah that's it yeah it's just going to
take make things take longer like I
guess but no way or alternatively uh
train the thing against you know train
the thing against the Sitting Duck and
then use that as the starting point for
everything in your
sweep yeah I was I was thinking about
doing that option but I was wondering
like how much the hyper parameters of
the initial model matter you're not
going to know yeah I know
yeah hey look we've made we've made
sweeps a lot faster now though so you
should be able to try more stuff out
true yeah like this uh I ran these 200
experiments in less than two
hours what's the SPs or on paing and
stuff that is probably way higher than
where I'm at uh it depends on the
experiment setting can go up to a
million but a lot of them are going to
be you know 300 to
600k because the settings thinking
that's like your range right aren't you
something like that 200 300 yeah it it
what really depends I've I haven't been
doing this yet but just in playing
around some settings I've Seen It Go as
high as almost 5 00 but that's if I'm
using continuous actions with like four
agents or something well it optimizes
directly for wock time so yeah it
doesn't perfectly do it so the thing I
would like to figure out mathematically
is how to make this thing like treat the
total time as a budget and then like
select experiments based on the budget
right now what it does instead is it uh
it checks the expected Improvement that
it's going to get and it tries to fill
in the cost curve so it tries to fill in
the cost curve but not an where it
doesn't expect there to be Improvement
so instead of trying to like run the
most efficient experiments at the moment
it tries to fill in the whole cost curve
subject to only running experiments that
actually
improve yeah that makes sense so if you
give it a really like big cost range it
will push up to the top like that's the
thing it will do um okay but only until
it stops seeing any Improvement now if
it sees a little bit of improvement if
it sees like
95 to like 96 or 9 seven it'll see that
as a big Improvement because as a
percentage right that's still a big
Improvement so it'll keep pushing but if
you get it to the point where it's like
it's not really improving at all
relative to the top end it'll stop
running experiments
there I actually tested this so I have
uh I came up with some synthetic
benchmarks and one of them is a cutoff
task where you get logarithmic
Improvement up to 100 cost with optimal
parameters and then you get no
improvement thereafter and basically
every other method will just blindly
keep running stuff at higher and higher
cost um but our method will like it'll
run a couple experiments over there
figure out that's dumb and then they'll
stop doing
it so that's kind of cool so you said
the current Dev is the new one you have
right yep it's in
Dev oh sh I have to I have to sync my
Fork of Dev that's what's happening uhuh
and that'll be a big because I deleted
the old DE Branch
so that's fine
I mean there's get history I could
restore it right but it's it's
whatever 159 commits behind LOL look at
this so this is only has 19 experiments
and this is the Pito
front
already isn't that crazy is this for
pong
M yeah pong so one two three four 5 6 7
8 9 10 these are the random samples
right 10 random samples and then then uh
and then protein takes over and this is
what it
does it's pretty sick that it just jumps
right to figuring out a solved yep it
fits a model to these points and then it
says oh I could just put this point on
the
board that's pretty cool
yeah it doesn't even have like this
point or this point or anything like if
I were to plot this so you can see how
crazy this is so if I just do
one two
oops
9 10
11 all
right where's the par
front yeah so this is what it
does so it gets these experiments and
then it does this
one now actually this is kind of a
little bit more aggressive than I would
like because this it spends a lot of
time on this experiment right I'd prefer
it it did something out
here because it spends a lot of time on
this one um but uh the the problem with
that is the cost model is not is not
very well fit at the moment because it
only has 10 points so it doesn't think
that it's going to be this expensive is
What's Happening Here it almost
certainly it thinks that this experiment
is way cheaper than it is it thinks that
this experiment is here but it messes up
the
prediction
understandable yeah it's not allowed to
run experiments that it thinks are too
expensive compared to what it's already
see it's a pretty sophisticated
algorithm I like it and it's actually
nice because
um like it doesn't get anything for this
right here
uh again if it thinks that it's going to
do well you can only score it off of
what it thinks it's going to get because
uh you know it after it runs this point
it'll get it added to the training set
but the reason it runs this is it thinks
it's going to do higher than this parito
point over here yeah yeah it's just
wrong it's
all uh but the thing is once you run a
few of these it actually it's instructed
not to Cluster points densely together
so it will actually actively build this
up and then by doing that it will get a
good model and it'll stop running stuff
where it can't
improve yeah it's a very nice
algorithm so you you stuck with goian
models I know you're talking about
trying maybe like linear aggression or
something but you ended up just sticking
with good old gausian you so it turns
out that yeah you really want gaussian
processes for this but the thing is you
have to be really careful with your data
normalization like insanely obscenely
disgustingly
careful um let me show
you the all the Transformations that I
had to get right on
this okay so here's the scores so first
of all you get the minute Max 4 that are
passed in you linearize this thing with
Min and Max 4 and then you do this
exponential transform with this leg
negative log distance with this
carefully tuned Epsilon parameter okay
and then you Rel linearize it using the
Min the empirical Norm uh the empirical
Min and Max of the existing thing so now
it's 0 to one in xace and then you fit
the gine process to that and that does
your score variable and then for your
cost variable you have to take the log
of it uh and then you what then you
linearize the log and then you train on
the linearized log space of
it and then and then hold on I think we
need to use some of those intermediate
transforms as well the scoring function
because that's what you train on but not
what you score it with and then gpy Norm
where is this
thing oh yeah so you train
on
GP do I use hold on this [__] thing
is so
complicated okay you do actually for the
score you train on the latent variable
that comes directly out of the out of
the gaussian process and then you
actually you have to transform all your
Paro points into that same space uh and
because you have to compare it to your
nearby Paro points but then the distance
I believe the distance function uses
something else doesn't
it oh no we simplified it so it is in oh
no no wait it's in log C
Norm yeah yeah so there is an extra
transform because you have to take
you take log of the cost and then you
have to normalize that so there's a
separate separate normalization on the
log cost for that so it's just a bunch
of obscene stuff to
do and if you screw up any of these it
doesn't
work so how much did carb screw up
previously how much did it screw up um
to give you an
idea
so in carbs if you have a perfect
model uh if you have a perfect model
then carbs will randomly
sample so carbs converges to random
sampling really
yes what man that's S I mean I guess
that kind of makes sense given what I've
seen of it but I build model so it tries
to build a model of this parito front
but it doesn't actually fill in data so
it can just be wrong but basically as
soon as it thinks that it has like a
perfect fit there it just stops doing
stuff oh yeah that's stupid so ours ours
does not actually model the Pito front
at all we deleted that celian process uh
instead what we do is we explicitly fill
in the Pito front with
experiments so instead of it being
function based it's sample based like in
order to figure out that I want to put
this point Point here I look at the
distance to the nearest Pito point I
look at how much I think I can improve
over this Pito
Point uh and yeah I look at like there's
one other distance as well so what it
tries to do is it tries to explicitly
fill in regions that are missing
data it's pretty cool yeah it makes
sense I like this
algorithm so we're going to run this on
stuff for the next couple of months
depending on how good it is you know
I'll put together a nice blog post maybe
a paper but I hate papers I don't know
I'd like to get to put together some
silly trailer like some announcement
trailer for it that'd be
fun the protein
shake I should email my protein cuz they
give out sponsorships like candy and see
if I can get them to give me uh like a
sponsorship link
that would honestly be hilarious that be
hilarious you know pper protein
sponsored by my
protein that'd be
amazing yeah that' be pretty good
yeah get all the researchers buying
protein
I'm trying to get the setup file right
now just filled it
in very nice
it's kind of funny because it doesn't
get penalized for putting a point right
on top of another point if it's if the
other point is not
parito so it only gets penalized for
putting a a point too close to an
existing parito
point which to be fair is like kind of
degenerate but yeah I know there's so
many things I can
prove uh I still think it's pretty damn
cool that we can run 25 experiments and
basically have pong
done I mean if you look at the time here
right it hasn't found a fast solution
yet oh wait no this is the wrong this is
CIS running time hold on
this not lot
cost
cost what the hell's Happening Here
there it
is so 45
seconds for 19 and what is it 69 seconds
for 20.7 score so yeah it takes a little
longer to get like the high score cheap
one
But It's
Tricky did you ever modify your uh your
build script to be using the same format
as
your setup. Pi
nope yeah I probably broke that that
probably needs fixing okay
because it yeah because it what it does
is it includes a particular rib
one oh no I I got this e
[Music]
16 e
okay so I think you said earlier Joseph
or like but like yeah an earlier time
you said we'll figure out what to do
with the cake of impulse Wars when you
just take a look at it
yeah um look at
it yeah you mind I I have tried to
comment it very I'll take a look at it I
want to spend later tonight trying to do
distributed training um but I will take
a look at this now
cool you me to send you a link yep is
this
CS here I'll send it in development oh
question oh okay yeah you can address
that oh yeah
all right so if I delete I understand
that you've made cake as painless as
possible but like everything is
screaming at me to
keep extra dependency build dependencies
out let me see fetch
content I don't know what that does so
that basically you can see it down below
it makes it really really easy to handle
dependencies if they have a cmake file
you basically just tell cmake like hey
download this and build it and it just
does so you don't have to do all the
weird like I don't know like download
rib strip files blah like and point to
like a very specific like Raab archive
directory like that's what cake for you
just tell like hey go get RB and build
it for whatever offering system I'm
building it for just handles it and
there are some you know things you
haveen to take in account but like I you
know they're all commented for the most
part so basically this is cancer so the
only thing that's like it it like makes
sense because it's in the other
projects and the only reason it makes
sense because it's already in the other
projects that's what you're telling
me so again if you use if we ended up
using this for like multiple things like
you wouldn't really have to if you so if
you added multiple ocean ends for this
you wouldn't really had to add mo mo
much code at all most of this is just
like I don't know well
you could slm it down a lot of it isn't
like all technically necessary but stuff
like cach and blah blah it just you know
makes it faster my concern is the
presence of this file is going to bounce
users
immediately I mean if just stick it to
impulse Wars I don't think so
what in here is hard to do in a build
script so again this is all possible in
a build script but there's a lot of edge
cases and things just cmake just handles
for you and it also does incremental
building like I noticed when I'm
building a python module with puffer's
setup script it does like the like the
full build every time which takes like
30 seconds on my desktop
all the M or just impulse
force uh when I when I was just building
pong when I was like it builds all of
them the first time that you build when
you it pip install puffer yeah it builds
all the MS the first time but then it
cashes everything that hasn't
changed yeah but I was running into
weird stuff I'm trying to remember like
I changed something to the scon I had to
like delete the scyon files because like
something else was think it was just so
they don't if you change stuff in the
settings file but not in the scon it
will not
recompile yeah that that doesn't make
sense to
me so what's nice about this like like
cmake and stuff like you just it only
builds what is
necessary um so like if I change the
headers like the C headers It'll like
basically like you know rebuild
everything but if I just change a scon
file it'll only rebuild the scon file
you know so on and so forth so
and I have it optimized so like when I
am building the python module it's way
faster it's it's like less than two
seconds for an incremental build versus
like 30 seconds to do the full build
from scratch or like a minute or
something and yeah I do use the auto pxd
some of the auto pxd stuff is annoying
like if I have time I don't know if
honestly if I'll ever really do it but
like it'd be nice to maybe like
push some upst Upstream fixes to Auto
pxd but like I don't know how much work
that would be I've been trying to figure
out Theon intermediary layer because
it's kind of gross the thing that I
cannot get around at the moment is
memory views are really nice
feature can you not use them in
cake no that's nothing to do with cake
it's the sorry
can you not use them in syon I meant you
can't use them outside of scon that's
what's the thing that's hard to replace
oh I see
yeah God damn it
see yeah I enable like all the warnings
and then just like disable like very
specific warnings that are behind how
does this work with uh with python as
well because
yeah there's a setup.py
right no I don't so I have a p project.
toml and that's
it you got rid of the setup.py yep I
have no setup.py because I hate that
crap that is
nice so all yeah all the basically all
the pride project that P project. toml
is is basically like hey use sidekit
build core which then uses cmake for all
the logic and so build for build firsty
make yeah that's its main thing it works
with [__]
hell I can't get that thing to use a
build
script I'd love that shitty setup. pie
but every time I've tried to use P like
tomel it just doesn't [__] work
either
so yeah I don't know how this would
scale to like puffer size but at least
for me
like psychic build core was like a well
we need to see that right because I mean
that matters because I don't want to
have this and a [__] setup.py right
sure and and probably a bill script as
well for because [__]
it yeah no
well you might just want you still might
want a build script it all would be
basically do it'd be way shorter it
would basically just call the cake with
certain options like like I don't know
like basic it'd be like a few lines like
10 line or something just oh you want to
build local or you know you want to
build python module okay do this you
want to build like the just the C file
do this yeah like that's what I'm using
make for but like I'm not tied to make
so obnoxious because literally the only
reasons why we even have to look well
let me think reasons we even have to
look at this stuff what's the problem uh
[__] linking rayb is a pain in the
ass y pain in the ass fetching and
linking box 2D is a pain in the ass
makes it easy here I know
um and then what else is a pain in the
ass uh getting the [__] python
getting it actually set up for
python yeah which you can which is you
can see yeah so yeah basic basically if
you go up a little bit works like if
python whatever like all that is python
specific it's really simple like and we
have to we'd have to also somehow now
figure out how to make this script run
for all the
environments what is
pyro uh Asian optimization for py torch
is that some like weird pit package I
got to
find pyro torch Pyro if you look it up
all
right how's
everyone is that we are on stream for
reference oh hey how's it
going good good good oh you're on stream
all right yeah you're good I it's fine
I'm just letting you know that you're on
stream if you're chatting all right all
right all right fine I mean we're just
chilling here looking at a few different
things I mean we've gone through the 3dn
are we've looked at some of Captain
stuff well we're looking at the moment
now with the build system for puffer and
I'm like oh it's tough Captain because
the thing is everything that you say can
make sense but my instincts are like
screaming at me like this is where it
all goes
wrong at the same time yeah I I
understand your hesitation honestly
because it's like this is the big heavy
thing that makes like this is the big
obnoxious thing that's going to piss
everybody off who just wants to run
their freaking you know build should be
done this is it right here um well for I
understand that because like and again
like I have I don't I'm not like any big
cmake lover it's just like it can be
obtuse and annoying but like I don't
know in my opinion it's the best tool
for this job is it the I don't know yeah
can we use it just to fetch can we use
it to fetch like the correct
dependencies and handle the python side
and then leave the build script with the
flags so instead of the build script
calling cake cmake calls the build
script that way you can have a build sh
Standalone that you can run on the C
code once you've downloaded
everything wait so does that make
sense kind of so so this thing python
right yeah this thing builds my Python
and like just the CM itself like just a
c binary well does it build everything
those are two different things is NE
there's H and there's the binary there's
going to be a runnable executable for
the cile yes if those both
yeah so
so what
if okay so the the building the binary
portion is not actually that bad if you
have the correct installed versions of
everything locally and assuming that you
don't have to deal with python
right I mean you still the problem of
linking Raab and whatever all your
dependencies you are but yeah it's
easier wait where the flags for that
where flags for what I don't see Raab
anywhere uh keep going down it's when I
fetch Raab so that's the thing cake just
handles it all I just tell it hey go get
it and like figure it out for me and it
just does
it so RB has cmake files and so RB just
kind of configures it s once you fetch
it and like stuff because it supports
cake that's the beauty of
it so the only configuration of Raab are
these kind of options that are right
below when I fetch it and a lot of those
I don't need um like I just turn the
audio off because I'm like oh like this
might speed up building but like it
really doesn't so I could easily remove
that but like the other stuff I just
building a statically and all that is is
like hey don't build shared build it
position and pendent I just set those
two options and it just it just works
works on Mac works on Linux I don't hate
the I don't hate the python build
running through cmake if it removes the
setup.py I hate the C build running
through
cmake why is
that because at the moment it's
literally a build sh script you
literally just run a little shell script
and you have your pure C build and C
that's it
I mean so you could have both but like I
just feel like that'd be I don't know
you could wondering there a
way what include like what flags does
this thing automatically include like
how much [__] is
there what you mean like optimization
Flags or what well this thing is going
to get some flags from the cmake of the
of box 2D and of RA right yeah like LGL
LP you know l like ALB obviously like
there going to be some
Flags yeah how much stuff is there
because if I just put the flag a lot is
there actually a lot uh so do you want
me to share my screen I can show you the
generated stuff or you can do it
yourself either way what do you
prefer want me to share my screen well
if you
just yeah let me see because I don't
yeah I have I'll have to go set all this
[__] up yeah because cmake does the fly
like it's generating stuff so yeah let
me just share and I can show
you um
screens all right let me know when
you're seeing it hold on [__] see I
swear what why can't I am I stupid why
can't I watch this there it
is
okay okay it should be yeah build that
ninja so this again you're never
supposed to read this but this is like
the generated
stuff
um let me see link
Shar yeah it's adding a lot of flags let
me see
like okay RBS
everywhere I mean how do you I I don't
understand how you look at this and not
go oh this is total [__] and it's going
to totally break and cause me pain and
suffering well that's the thing you
never look at this directly usually you
just edit the cmake file and then the
cake generates based on like I don't
know your environment your compiler yada
yada yada like this is all you deal with
you don't deal with that it generates
thousands of lines of compiler direct
like um yeah compiler commands and
directives but like you never deal with
that um you just do this like you just
say like hey I want um rib and I want
share libraries off I want it
um position independent and then again
like this is optional you could remove
this and not change
anything you always end up having to
deal with the thing
eventually yeah and I've dealt with some
stuff but like this builds with like
really old versions and really new
versions of GCC and clang it builds on
Mac OS and it builds on like multiple
Linux distros at this point like yeah
I've dealt with some stuff already and
I've commented out like yeah like this
thing I had to like set um FP everywhere
like C like like there I found some
things but they honestly haven't been
like too bad to figure out um one weird
thing I did find probably the weirdest
thing was like if you fetch box 2D first
I remember it not building and I didn't
figure out why but like if I just fetch
Raab first it's fine I think like ra
like override something or whatever but
like I just fetch first and configure
and then fetch Fox 2D and configure and
then it just works fine so I think ra
just needs to be first for whatever
reason
but
um that was the only thing like a lot of
the stuff like this stuff right here is
just optimizations I'm just enabling
like you know I'm just you know and I I
Cal that but like a lot of the stuff
here is just like to make this code as
fast as possible basically and then all
this stuff
commands yeah yeah so this is setting a
build
flag yes so this is setting a build flag
for box 2D and for raive specifically
because they have options in their cmake
file that you can like enable or disable
and that's how you deal with
them so like in rib for example
if you want to not build the audio
module you have to first turn on
customize build and then you have to say
use audio off like for example and this
is like specific to
rib if you were building this from if
you're just building this from Source
wouldn't it just be a
flag yeah but it it passes the flag for
you it sets the director for whatever
for
you it doesn't this is just how
you H set is cmake
specific but I mean it's very easy to
understand it's basically just like
passing well yeah I mean yeah you're
just setting a like a cmake option
basically like they declare these as
options or I I think a flag or something
yeah they declare these as like cake
options that you can change and then you
just change them if you want to
but here um I'll show you how I'm
building both like the C biner and the
python so basically what I did
is um I have this like if statement here
and basically you could easily do this
to sh script basically you just call the
cmake and then if I want to build the
python module I just Define build python
module if I want to build the executable
it's just for me build demo you know
have build demo and then it it goes in
here and does that and then I just have
a function configure Target that
basically because this is like logic
that needs to happen for everything it
just includes the correct directories
links ra and box 2D like they're already
configured so I'm just telling cmake hey
like link this with my Target and Target
is just like whatever you're building
and then here I'm setting compiler
options but this is only for impulse
Wars code so what this is basically
saying is like do not apply sorry do not
apply wear wall extra whatever to box
stent Raab only apply that to my code
which is nice because it's hard to do
that sometimes um with just
like so yeah see makes that really easy
um and for example like in here I can go
through how I'm building a python if you
want but for example you can easily like
okay so impulse wars. C is a generated C
scon file right this is the generated um
C source file from
syon and there are some like pedantic
warnings that pop up because of it so I
just say okay for this file only disable
pedantic but it's really easy to do but
all of my code that I personally wrote
has like pedantic warnings enabled but I
just disabled them for this one file
like it I don't even know how you do
that like on the shell like on the
command line or whatever maybe you could
but you just probably have to WR on like
multiple commands and like it just be
annoying cake just handles this for you
again not saying this is like the
prettiest or like whatever but that's
why I try to like comment as much as I
could just so it'd be a little bit
easier for me and other people to
understand when I come back to it later
but
yeah this personally to me is much more
maintainable than the uh setup.py
and so honestly I didn't even bother
trying to get the set up to apply
working with box 2D properly yeah
so
see basically I'm wondering how
different they would be if I actually
tried to do that you can try it if you
want so all the stuff I just removed
that was like the Auto pxd 2 specific
this is literally like all you need to
build the python that's
it you just just find Python and that's
nice cuz it just like finds the for you
you don't have to like I mean it does a
little bit more than just finding it
this path it's nice um just find my
headers like what headers do I want to
actually this is also um autop pxt
specific
so so okay find python transpile scon to
C this is assuming like you add all your
stuff to scon pile like you're doing
right now and then you just add the
library that actually that actually
builds the python Library this is my
custom this is my logic that goes into
like configuring like I said before just
all the stuff that's done for anything
I'm building and then I just install it
I that's basically just moves the shared
object file to the correct directory
it's really
simple and that's basically like all the
set up. High logic right here
I don't know how tricky this would be to
get working with K honestly but yeah I
don't know wa does there does this have
to move everything into a a
sorer
um what do you mean like like everything
that's building yeah are you moving all
the C into a
sorcer no well you can put it wherever
you want like I have it in a sourcer but
you just tell it where it is so you can
have it wherever you want so the reason
I didn't have the reason I don't have a
sorcer is because every environment
still has a python file attached to it
yeah um so you'd have to mirror the
structure which is kind of
disgusting
so there if we wanted to do this for
puffer as a whole there are like two
solutions you could do in terms of like
you know handling like building all
these different environments so you Pro
what you'd probably happen is you'd have
like one
cmake um like one cm make list file at
the root which basically like all the
logic basically and then you
basically well I'm not doing that
nobody's gonna freaking submit nobody's
gonna bother that [__] to you'd have to
be able to do it from the toml like
specify M specific
options well well we we maybe could do
that cuz what I'm saying is like
basically but what I'm what I'm thinking
of the users would not need to modify
the one main seam or if they would they
literally need to add like one line um
so what I'm thinking out of the box at
work maybe we could like Jer something
up or we add something to a tommel but
like what I'm thinking package right
like you add your package to the tomel
and it gets picked up by the
cake yeah I don't know how that would
work like me maybe there's a toml pars
cake but that would honestly like bloat
the cake a lot no no I mean cuz you
specify you specify extensions in this
in the toml right oh in the P project
toml yeah you would just specify your
your specific environment as a toml I
would assume right so this no well I'm
I'm actually withit build with GPU Drive
is what they do you specify specific
packages you know now I'm not sure
actually how to handle this for like
multiple packages cuz I was just
thinking of like how to build the cake
code but now I'm not sure
honestly what we might do is just have
one like giant shared library or shared
object that's built with like all the M
code that might be easiest and so
there's basically just like
one you have to load do you have to then
if we do that for the web build do you
have to load all the MS every time you
load an
M uh well you could probably structure
it well then yeah then no then you could
do it so you're only building what M you
want you could yeah I'm just saying for
the python side you'd probably just
build it all in one big shirt
object that'd be easiest I think um well
we'll have to look here because I mean
the thing is like all of these are going
to have to be things that are fixed
because this is I mean this is a big
like extra bloat being added there has
to be a damn good reason whenever I'm
gonna look at something like this right
yeah so see it's like everything you're
saying can make sense but like it has to
I mean I apply a very high threshold and
I know oh it's cmake it's literally used
by everything right but it's like okay
cool like a lot of things use a bunch of
garbage uh right now there's a build
script if I were to spend a bit of time
I could get box 2D working in there as
well right uh and then literally you
have just a shell script with a command
and it doesn't have like a thousand
lines worth of generated Flags it has
these specific commands and it builds
and it builds locally it builds for web
it builds for python everything
right so yeah what I think you're what I
think you could potentially gain from
this is your main so once you become
even like a tiny bit familiar with this
like you shouldn't really have to change
too much personally I think it would
honestly in for you not for the US user
well for users it like ideally be like
nothing much changes I think for us they
see a cakes list text and they get
pissed off that there's a cmake list.
text yeah but so okay what my what my
think what my what I'm thinking about
like what a user would have to do like
how they would have to interact with
like changing the cmake would be
basically they create a new cmake file
in their directory and just hear me out
that basically only have okay like here
are the location of like my source files
and that's it so basically
just that's how is that's not they'd be
like five lines that's not harder than
like writing like learning scon and
copying all that and then all they do it
basically be like this where do I have
this well the scon side I'm not happy
with either to be
fair but it basically just be like
something like okay like my header files
are here here and then like my 1C file
is here it basically just say hey like
add this file add this file it'd be like
you know I would hope can get rid of
that because I think that that would be
uh toml packaging I would hope well no
but the way cmake works is like you can
you could recursively glob for stuff but
I was reading not recursively glob for
stuff I think that there's a thing
withit build that lets you specify
multiple sub packages in the Tom
even if that is so you'd still have to
tell C make like what files you're
building so well it would just be like
you tell it what the package is and it
would just take that and it would use
that as the path because they're all in
the same spot it's they're all the same
relative
path it's ocean SL whatever the name of
the package
is
C or
H I don't know maybe but I don't think I
don't think that would work for yeah if
if you're just doing the python like
maybe that would work I don't
know yeah it wouldn't be like I I I
don't it would be a fairly big
undertaking not fairly it would be like
you know not a trivial undertaking to
add this but I think the benefits would
be you when you have m's that have
additional dependencies way easier to
deal with them when you have when you
need to modify things like oh I need to
get this working with different compiler
different operating system different
whatever like cakes built for that you
don't have to like you know go like
manually fussing around with like
downloading Raab yourself and then like
matching on different paths and all that
stuff like you just tell like hey just
get get this dependency get it working
or I don't know all this stuff like you
could um
all you Al your builds become a lot
faster and the build process becomes in
my experience with bu puffer I'm willing
to entertain it if it allows us to
delete the setup. file yeah I mean I'm
pretty sure it will because if we end up
with both [__] no no yeah that I I
understand that no if we're going to
just add an extra heavy thing like no
not happening um um if we're able to
actually find a way to delete set up. pi
and make it relatively easy then that's
like okay maybe um
yeah heck I mean ideally this thing
could just generate us like a not
thousand line like a short command that
you could then just run to compile the
individual files if you wanted to as
well that would be nice well I mean
what's the point though the point is
like cmake is basically like basically
cmake is like kind of like a
configuration file language the goal is
like okay you tell it like what you want
it to have build and then it generates
the commands to build for you um like I
I don't understand like why you want to
run those commands like yourself like I
mean technically you can like I said the
damn
thing okay I mean you can inspect the
output I don't
know you garbage I mean I have this
problem with scyon right now it's all
fine until something goes wrong it gives
you a garbage error and then here you
want to figure out that error enjoy your
30,000 lines of just like just absolute
dog [__] see that it's
written right yeah so to be fair on that
front I understand that
um yeah the the cake specific errors
like aren't terrible in my experience
like they're not necessarily anything
great but they're not terrible either
typically if you have some kind of like
error with cake itself you won't get to
generated phase it'll just tell you
something's wrong with your cake but if
you're having build issues I guess it's
mostly version stuff but I like every
single project I've ever had to use
cmake with has had a cmake specific
problem so I mean that's my bar at the
moment is every single project and some
of them have killed the projects as well
like their setup just didn't freaking
work yeah and uh on like whatever
systems and it just killed the
projects yeah I mean I think Ridley is a
great example I think britley has their
installs a pain in the ass because they
have to like link I think they have
cmake and they have to build Vulcan or
something with it and it just doesn't
work and nobody uses it now and it's
like the best project ever by one of the
best Engineers I
know oh man I had trouble with the
Vulcan I I know what you're talking
about there you go yep yeah so I mean
this is like honestly one of these
things this was like this was a big part
of the motivation for seeing if we could
get a single file version of box 2D is
just not having to deal with linking it
or anything right we just have like you
know uh like a puffer like a small set
of puffer Li files that we have
maintained and then we just have really
easy building with it yeah I mean I The
more I've done so with box 2D like you
could do that if you wanted to but I
would honestly not recommend it because
like
yeah so the current version of box 2D
that like 3.0 that is written in C cuz
as before August of 2024 it was like C++
and it's so it's pretty new like the
author is changing stuff like basically
weekly like adding to the main like Dev
Branch basically and he takes in like
requests and stuff so like it's changing
all the time like yeah you can like you
could okay like I'm just going to take
like whatever 3.0 we're on and just kind
of in
boxd there is a decent amount but what
I'm saying is like there like he's
adding bug fixes and performance
improvements all the time and so if we
made our own version it' be very hard to
integrate
that and it's not like oh this is like a
dead Library that's like never updated
like I said he commits like
weekly and so you don't need to pull
those changes in weekly but like it's an
active library and you'd want to be
pulling in like you know for like
updates and stuff we also longer term
what I this is like a very nice package
for what it is um
I want to figure out what this gives us
in terms of like phys yeah physics stuff
that we can use in the future like what
like what types of environments will
this let us
build
um I mean I don't know how to answer
that exactly but I can kind of go over
like some of the features I know it
has um well I mean the doc the main
liation being it's 2D
engine yeah it's specific for 2D but
going to do more 3D stuff it's optimized
for 2D though so if you're doing 3D if
you had like one Poss optimized for a 2d
when in a lot of cases you're just
adding an extra I you're just adding a
ve like VC 3 versus VC two operation in
a lot of the cases I'm not a physics guy
but from what I understand it's not that
simple it depends what you're doing yeah
it does but um I'm I'm pretty sure from
what this guy said said it gets way more
complex way fast like really fast with
3D physics and he does it in 2D only
because he does 3D for his day job and
this is just easier to mess around with
and apparently he's worked on stuff like
OverWatch like tum I don't know this is
stuff you just mentioned off hand like
he's he's worked on some like you know
high-profile games like he's pretty well
known he's my latest like play of the
game ragged all across the
scene yeah
so yeah like this guy knows what he's
talking about basically but that drives
say that you can't just get
like whenever there's a thing right like
3D physics I want like 3D physics. H
that just solves that Bloody
problem I get that but Prett close to 2D
physics. but not quite
there yeah but developing with one giant
file would be a nightmare because I well
I don't mean literally but like okay
this is this is freaking
tiny this is Tiny yeah this is not a
tiny library
though it's tiny like
why okay but then here if you're going
to have all these files fine but then
why is the build process
hard if you're using cake it's not and
that's what he kind of expects you to
use if you're using cake it's just hey
fetch it and blink it
the hell's even in
here [__] Christ
man yeah I don't I don't I don't
understand how anybody can look at this
and say like oh this is yeah this is a
great way to build your software this is
the problem like I don't understand how
you can look at this and say like ah yes
it makes absolute sense that this is the
way that we should specify how to
compile software this is like the most
readable and like most intuitive thing
that we could possibly come up with no
I'm not disagreeing with you but
honestly like so I don't think you have
any experience with go but like whenever
I I do write go for my day job and with
go there is no build system you just
have like source files and you basically
just like you just build it you have
like one file at the roote that says
like this is the name of like the
overall like package or whatever I'm
building and then everything kind of
like you have your main like you know
like entry point file that includes like
Imports everything else and that's
that's it that's it great like that's
that's older and I'm like C is just so
old at this point like I don't know like
all this stuff is it's never going to
change it sucks but yeah no I don't
disagree with you like this stuff sucks
that it's necessary but like I
think it's bizarre like and the thing is
that every time anybody tries to fix it
they make it worse so
yeah it's it's not really solved problem
but like I think cake is the the lesser
of the
evils available this does have mcrip in
here I see yeah it does support like you
can you can build block CD for web I
haven't tried yet but people do it with
no
problems and yeah I do do we have to use
if we use if we use cake for the
dependencies does that mean we have to
make C use teic for our [__] as
well um what do you
mean so like can we have a file let's
team make file that says run this [__]
run this [__] for
RB and then we just have like a build
command for
ours like do we need to have a bunch of
stuff for puffer lib that does this [__]
for our dependencies or can we have our
dependencies just be yeah these flags
done
yeah no like how basically you just do
it like how I'm doing you just say fetch
this and then if you need to set options
you set them and then you tell it to
link it and that's like it and there's
so much dumb [__] in here look they
literally have editor specific stuff no
I know but that's the thing like you can
read through the stuff if you want but
like if it just works I'm just kind of
like
whatever like yeah they're just try he's
just trying to get it to build in like
all different environments and all
different stuff and a lot of it is like
building examples and tests that you
don't want and it won't build by default
when you're doing this stuff so a lot of
this code is like not even doing what
you care about it's like yeah building
stuff you that won't build for you
so but yeah um well the H damn
it you wouldn't have to add so if you're
using a dependency which if you want to
add a new dependency to Puffer if we use
cmake and it has cmake already then yeah
you just fetch it if it doesn't have
cmake you you need to add like a little
bit more and it really depends on what
it is yeah then you're [__] it's like
hey they actually did it right but
unfortunately we're going to do it the
wrong way so now we're going to have to
do it the wrong way for the thing that
did it
right well if it's a single header then
no you just add it to include dur and
just like I honestly do that like I have
some files there's some like small like
uh there's a small library that
implements like uh a couple of data
structures like a dynamic array
basically and they have it spread over
multiple headers but it's like small so
I just combine it into one single header
and then I just put it in like a include
D and I don't need to do anything with
cake can we do that kind of
hilarious yeah like you
can if you have a library that you can
make into single header file or
something then and it doesn't support
concatenates
everything I think something like that
exists maybe because I've seen a version
of sqlite um that is one single header
and I think it's generated that would be
so funny if we could just point
something at this and then point it at
rib and then we just have a depths. h or
whatever the only problem with that is
with stuff like Raab and box 2D like
there are specific Flags you need to set
like when you're building for specific
things and that's with the cake handles
but
um box 2D probably not as much but Raab
for sure
um but yeah for smaller libraries like
if we wanted to have like I don't know
like a fluid simulation and I think
there's one like liquid fun or something
I imagine a sports teamm if they didn't
or some smaller Library you know like
yeah we could just make it single header
or we could just write some I don't
know it really depends the thing the
thing that really Burns me right here is
that it's literally like they just give
you oh yeah do it with
cmake I mean this is like this is kind
of cancer like I could understand it's
like okay other things are going to use
cake people are going to want to use our
thing with cake so we give you a cmake
file sure um but not having a [__]
build command at all is insane to
me I mean I think he does actually I
think he does have a build sh file up
there but it just runs a
cake that's not a build
command why isn't it it's
building oh man it's going through cake
why like GCC
like you just you just said you wanted a
simple command that'll just build it and
you don't care I mean that's what it's
doing well no because it's now it's
building it with
cake yeah but so basically you don't
like I don't trust this [__] to
not make my life miserable cu the
thing that's the problem that's the
problem I don't think that's unpopular
either I think that generally if there's
a simple way to do it with a builds H
people will prefer a builds
H yeah
but so I mean here's here's the thing
right
like that doesn't mean you can't have a
cake file because yeah okay other
projects are going to want to include
your cake or whatever but
like I'm trying to think
how we can build this
thing damn
it I mean Ray how's Ray do this
because they give you they do this don't
they sorry what was that I mean I think
ra does
this where's the build command that they
give
you probably in the wiki or just like
working on yeah just click on one of
those
you can build oh you build with M and I
think M just calls the
M I thought they gave
you I haven't done this so how am I
building
it I'm not buing I'm just linking it
yeah they give you the arcraft files or
whatever
so
this right
right so yeah that's because they have a
package you can install that's only that
only works because you can like AP
install the Raa package I
think no they give you the binaries this
is what we do with the binaries you
don't have to app install the package
that's systemwide you can just download
the binaries that's what we do oh right
from the release but yeah that only
works but yeah if they didn't provide
that it'd be really annoying to build
without I mean we can literally take
this thing
right we can build a binary for
it and then we can just pull that can't
we I mean sure but you have to do it for
Linux and Mac that's
fine I mean can can we do a thing with
like the GitHub C that just grabs this
and ships us a a b like puts a binary
somewhere I mean yes but that now you're
kind of Outsourcing cmake and making it
more complicated all I'm doing is I I'm
saying hey this this thing they don't
ship binaries I want
binaries
right so I include two binaries and then
you're just going to have a few Flags to
link them and you're
done right so if you don't have to build
this it gets simpler doesn't it if you
don't have to if you do not have to
build this as part of the package
installation which I think is better I
think it's better if you don't have to
build dependencies from source as part
of your package
installation
um I would argue against that
because then by default like for me for
example like okay like I want
to you kind of limit the users un like
how you've built your stuff right so
like say you build it with like I don't
know like whatever the default GCC is on
uh the puffer Docker containers but I'm
using like clang 20 which came out like
clang 20.1 or whatever which came out
like last week or something because I
want like the absolute fastest stuff
well now you know I'm using some code
which is built with an old compiler it's
not going to be as fast so if I want it
to be faster I'm going to have to like
rebuild it myself or for some reason if
that binary doesn't work on my system
for whatever like you know what I mean
like I don't know yeah Reas on the flip
side right if you're just your standard
user and you have some other compiler
that's slower then you're screwed like
if you run this thing through Condes
compiler you're just
[__] if PE my opinion if people are
going to use condo like just don't
yeah um like it's not really hard to
switch to anything else I you're
severely overestimating the technical
competency of researchers these people
don't know what like these people half
of them don't know how to use docker uh
half of them have been writing in Python
for the last 10 years heck I was writing
in Python for the last 10 years even
though I was trying to do know
substantial software uh until very
recently until I graduated frankly um
but the thing that's even more so is
that uh these a lot of them have
absolutely no desire to deal with any of
this stuff
whatsoever like here I got a review here
let me just give you an example GPU
Drive got rejected from a conference
recently it got accepted finally but it
got rejected recently and one of the
comments was like oh the Sim is in C++
that makes it hard to
use I'm not joking yeah that's
stupid but okay so that's [__] we
don't have to deal with that right but
like this like having a build system
that requires extra stuff because like
oh well what if you wanted to set this
up from Source or that like they don't
none nobody cares is the thing and if
they do care then like they can change
the make file to build it from you know
to pull in the depths if they want or
hell we can even provide that as an
option for all I care right um that make
more work for yourself though to like
have two different ways to build that's
fine the thing that I care about is that
there should be a very simple way to
build the thing from CLI and that's it
without having to go through this if you
just want to build your C you should be
able to build your
SE
okay I you mean
so so why is this thing in the way such
that it prevents you from having like
your GCC
Command right so you just you just want
to have yeah basically what you're
trying to have is like this lowest
friction possible for users to get
started with a new environment right
like a new user I'm going make this even
better for you okay I'm going to make it
even better you can use cake to download
and build the libraries for all I care
good by me once you have those binaries
built you should be able to GCC and
build your
F I
mean yeah you could theoretically do
that but
um it it's not just theoretical it
should be very easy right it should just
be the standard rayb Flags whatever the
standard box 2D Flags you need GCC like
one line
build maybe we have the alternative
flags for maybe we have the alternative
flags for Mac or you know uh Linux maybe
there's something there but other than
that it's like should be a lot one
line then I'm
happy okay as a corollary to that though
I don't know if that's the right word as
an argument to that though so I've
actually found it really useful so if we
if we did that we'd have like one binary
like probably it'd be lease builds right
like all the optimized stuff for all the
depths right you build like an archive
file or basically and build Ray and box
2D I will let you even I'll let you even
require make for the setup that's fine I
will literally because like the PIP
install is going to use it anyways right
so okay pip
install does make builds the libraries
links to python right M okay but once
you've done that you have the binaries
on your system right
uh yeah kind of you have the box 2D
biners and you have the ra biners right
you do okay so I think that after you've
pip installed the package anyc
development you want to do you should be
able to do with just
GCC so again I don't really
understand why you don't want to use
cmake to develop if if the friction for
new users was incredibly low if they
only had to add like okay my file is
named this and that's like basically it
that's I mean you require more for
easier to it's easier to screw with
flags and test stuff just running GCC
and there's one less thing that can go
wrong it's not running through
cake I don't know I mean it's it's the
simplest possible thing right is here's
your C file here's your GCC this thing
has downloaded your libraries VI and
there you go okay
okay I mean yeah I mean you could
totally do that um the only and again I
guess if you provide a hybrid way to
build this is Sol this but the only
downside of that because like me because
box 2D is very complex I found it very
useful for when I when I was building
with the address sanitizer I built
everything with the address sanitizer
like box Duty included because there
were certain errors like I wouldn't have
caught unless the address sanitizer was
sanitizing box 2D itself if it's only
sanitizing my logic like I wouldn't have
caught some stuff because yeah so like I
don't know you can do that that's fine
by me you can build the dependencies
however you'd
like yeah it just gets complicated
though if you're having this like single
file thing and I don't know that's
that's where makes it like you can do
that
cake I'm fine with doing that in cake
right for development please cmake dot
dot whatever debug okay and that will
enable app sanitize for dependency
libraries that are known to be
finicky uh you know for release cic dot
or cic do dot no release like no or DDC
release whatever the flag is that's
fine but this is the still the thing is
I still want you to have a GCC command
the GCC command does not have to rebuild
the
dependencies right yeah yeah it just has
to link statically link rib box if you
need it whatever we're going to use and
we could even make it not be duplicated
right because that script that build AG
script I can just have uh end variables
in there which are just like you know
box 2D Linux Flags um you know RB Linux
Flags whatever uh box 2D Mac Flags so on
and so forth anything that's like
specific that you needed to specify
manually you can grab that from cmake if
you
want how would you grab flags from cmake
though how would that work like I
understand building the archive file
with cmake and like copying that
somewhere where you could build it GCC
that makes sense but you just get you
just get the M variables from the shell
script if you want or heck you can set
them in this cake doesn't
matter you're still you're still talking
about building the dependency
right yeah yeah yeah yeah so you see
make to build the dependency like
archive files or or shared OB but I'm
assuming you'd want to statically
link it's just L less goes wrong with
python yeah python put places well we're
talking about like building these for
development purposes so it still puts in
weird places it'll put Link in a wrong
place and then what happens is you'll go
to test your script from outside the
python directory and it won't link yeah
yeah yeah fair so yeah we sta not of a
problem so yeah okay so we'd have cmake
that would build the python package and
then it would also build archive files
of the dependencies that you want to use
for when you're developing the
environments and so build it doesn't I
mean that's one thing we could do and
then you could just pull those but I'm I
think that's better because there's less
that can go wrong but exactly let's
let's just start with let's start with
this right here's the simplest possible
thing we try to come up with a simple
cake
belt right that pulls the dependencies
and builds them uh but since they're
being built statically anyways we still
provide a build s so that when after you
uh you've cloned the repo you've pip
installed the repo you should then be
able to use the local build command to
keep all your Dev in pure SE with just
GCC or CL whatever you want to use and
not have to go through
cake yeah no I understand what you're
saying that seems like that seems like a
pretty reasonable Middle
Ground if you think so cool um oh I know
I'm being completely unreasonable at the
same time I'm well aware but uh I look I
could be completely wrong here but my
intuition is always to apply a very high
uh cost cost so to speak for each added
bit of complexity even when it's
something as standard as
seeing no I understand it has it has its
work and like yeah like there's the
potential like yeah no I I get it like
honestly like even the scon inclusion
might have been a wrong decision you
know what happened with cython what
happened is at first I started building
neural MMO 3 in scyon and I thought oh
this is awesome researchers can just
like write python like stuff and have it
be fast and then I realized that it's
literally easier to just write it and
see and syon isn't even actually a
useful middle ground but we got stuck
with it because it's still the best way
to do bindings with num High
race yeah no I don't I don't think syon
was a wrong choice honestly I don't know
I would love to have something simpler
because anytime we do any code in syon
it's a pain in the ass to debug the
error messages suck yeah no you're not
wrong there right this is why the C was
easier right because C gives you real
error messages and compiles
instantly
yeah yeah I guess something else we'd
have to talk about I have to go in a
minute but we also if you'd also be open
to like trying Auto pxd or whatever
because that could cut down a lot I'm
open to that I I would love to find
something to replace scon with entirely
but yeah the auto pxd stuff is fine I
hate that you have to do headers
manually do headers oh yeah yeah yeah
the only downside so this is the price
you pay for auto pxd whatever because
like I've already fixed some of the
Annoying stuff uh let me see
yeah so there are certain times where
autop pxd like just can't parse
something and so you basically what I
did
is getting C for dinner one
second yeah okay
uh yeah last thing
here what did you say you got to do all
I'm saying is basically like the only
price you'd pay that I know of for users
the users would have to do anything
there may be certain like there will be
certain piece of code that for whatever
reason autop pxd can't parse because
it's stupid I'm trying to remember what
codeing here but there's some code in
this function the autop pxd is like yeah
I don't know what to do with that so you
just add like an if def around the
function like Bas that's it that's all
you do um that's so annoying it is Anno
build system side like build stuff
that's just screwy is just so
obnoxious but in this in this case it's
pretty benign because like it's very
easy to say like you could add something
to breed me or somewhere just like hey
if you're getting this error and it
tells you like hey at this function at
this line I can't parse this and the air
is not particularly clear but it does
tell you that so you just say okay if
you're getting an air it looks like this
like add this line add this line go
about your day consider this this should
be part of though a larger look at what
bindings system we're using because I
don't know about syon longer term
anyways because people people are like
consistently hitting [__] with the scyon
uh it's just scon in theory is amazing
but the error messages just suck and
like it's not it's been a project around
for a long time and like honestly scyon
in my mind is like it's almost a killer
app like if scon were if it compiled
fast and had good error messages and
like you could set it to be like
functions to be strict in C or not like
this would be I mean this would be like
an amazing language as a standalone
because it lets you it lets you
trivially mix Python and C so if you
actually had like an interpreter in the
python lines where you could set like
break and you could set break points in
the python or in the C right like it
would be a killer killer language like
this would be it's kind of everything
you ever want right you can do in one
language like highle string stuff that
doesn't have to be fast you can do like
CLE everything it would be perfect but
the execution is just not there
yeah yeah for sure I mean if we want to
stick with python we could we could
inate
a or scon I mean okay but yeah I've got
a run as well cuz I got dinner but uh
let me just real quick cuz there are
quite a few folks watching at the moment
it's whenever I have to discussions the
viewership shoots up so for folks on
YouTube and twitch this is all open
source reinforcement learning
Dev all of our M's are right here you
can try these out they're Ultra fast
most of them are written by contributors
some of whom came in with zero RL
experience so if you are looking to get
involved first of all start the GitHub
that helps us out a ton but then join
the Discord discord.
GPU link is also on puffer doai and uh
we've got some blog stuff here
on various things in reinforcement
learning this is some cutting edrl stuff
but also quick start stuff for beginners
and if you want even more content you
can follow me on X where I post pretty
much exclusively RL content and there's
some articles here you can't find
anywhere else so thanks and uh for guys
on Discord does anybody have anything
else pressing if not because I'm going
to be back after dinner I want to work a
little bit on distributed training but
uh I can answer if there's anything here
I'm just fighting demons and setup du
high oh lovely yeah yeah I I fought
those demons for a good 12 hours so um
yeah we Captain there is there is strong
motivation to delete setup top high at
the very least I will say I just want it
to not also involve deleting my builda
AG or replacing it with a cmate call
yeah know I I understand we'll we can
talk more about it later python tooling
just sucks I I wish I could just do
everything in Sealand like there are a
few things though first of all nobody's
do it because researchers love their
Python and second of all like okay
legitimately highle stuff string
manipulation Diaries all like this stuff
it just doesn't work nicely You' need
scyon or something except scon is a
nightmare so you have no options it's
rough yeah all right well I'm gonna go
yeah um yep talk to you guys later see
you bye
okay see you folks thank you what would
be the alternative to scon there isn't
one that's the problem uh there isn't a
good one so we'll have to be thinking
about that but uh yeah I'll be back
after dinner working on more stuff